The SAT®

Practice
Test #8

ANSWER EXPLANATIONS

      These answer explanations are for students taking the
      digital SAT in nondigital format.

 © 2025 College Board. College Board, SAT, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks of College Board.
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   Reading and Writing

   Module 1

   (33 questions)

   QUESTION 1

   Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of Juarez. In this context, "important" means marked by significant
   work or consequence. The text indicates that Juarez, who was the first president
   of Mexico from an Indigenous community, became a certain kind of figure in
   Mexico's history. It then supports that claim by describing some of the "many
   significant accomplishments" from Juarez's long tenure in office. This context
   conveys that Juarez is a significant and consequential figure in Mexico's history.

   Choice A is incorrect because the text focuses on Juarez's role as the first
   president of Mexico from an Indigenous community and on his many major
   accomplishments during his lengthy time in office; nothing in the text suggests
   that Juarez was "unpredictable," or tended to behave in ways that couldn't be
   predicted. Choice C is incorrect because nothing in the text suggests that Juarez
   was a particularly "secretive" figure, or that he tended to keep things private or
   hidden from others. Instead, the text focuses on things that are known about
   Juarez: that he was the first president of Mexico from an Indigenous community,
   that he had a lengthy tenure, and that his many major accomplishments included
   consolidating the national government's authority and advancing Indigenous
   rights. Choice D is incorrect because the text focuses on the idea that Juarez,
   who was the first president of Mexico from an Indigenous community, had many
   major accomplishments during his lengthy time in office. Rather than suggesting
   that Juarez was an "ordinary," or common and typical, figure in Mexico's history,
   this context conveys that Juarez was instead a notable figure.

   QUESTION 2

   Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of the research that Lopes-Ferreira and her colleagues are conducting
   on the stingray species Potamotrygon rex. As used in this context, "a substantial"
   effect means an effect that is sizable or noteworthy. The text indicates that the

2  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   researchers are seeking to determine whether there are "considerable variations"
   in the potency of stingray venom that are associated with variation in the
   stingrays' age and sex. This context suggests that the researchers want to find
   out whether stingray age and sex have a substantial effect on venom toxicity.

   Choice A is incorrect because there's nothing in the text that suggests that the
   researchers have been studying whether the stingrays' age and sex have "a
   disconcerting," or an unsettling and disturbing, effect on the stingrays' venom.
   The text indicates that the researchers wish to determine if stingray age and sex
   cause large variations in the toxicity of stingray venom, not if the effect of age and
   sex is disconcerting. Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates that
   researchers want to find out whether differences in stingray age and sex produce
   differences in stingray venom, not that the researchers want to find out whether
   age and sex have "an acceptable," or a satisfactory, effect on venom. The text
   makes no mention of what would make an effect on venom toxicity acceptable
   and gives no indication that the researchers are interested in that question.
   Choice C is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense in context for the
   researchers to be looking for "an imperceptible," or an unnoticeable, effect of age
   and sex on stingray venom. The text says that the researchers are trying to
   determine if there are "considerable variations" in venom toxicity linked to age and
   sex, not that the researchers are trying to find effects that they can't perceive.

   QUESTION 3

   Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of how kelp forests help marine animals. In this context, "tranquil"
   means free from disturbance, or calm. The text indicates that ocean currents are
   powerful and make it difficult for marine animals to hide from predators and that
   kelp forests slow currents down to create calmer areas. In other words, kelp
   forests create a more tranquil environment.

   Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates that kelp forests provide shelter
   for marine animals, meaning they create environments that are safer, not more
   "dangerous." Choice C is incorrect because the text discusses how kelp forests
   affect currents in the ocean, and it isn't clear how an ocean environment could be
   "imaginative," or full of imagination. Choice D is incorrect because the text
   indicates that kelp forests create a calm and safe environment, and an
   environment that is "surprising" would be characterized by unexpected
   occurrences, not calmness.

   QUESTION 4

   Choice C is the best answer because it logically and precisely completes the
   text's discussion of The Mule Bone, a play that Zora Neale Hurston and Langston
   Hughes wrote together. In this context, "collaboration" means working together
   with someone to write a literary work. The text indicates that most writers prefer
   to work alone and that working together destroyed the friendship between
   Hurston and Hughes. This establishes that The Mule Bone is a relatively rare
   example of collaboration in literature.

3  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   Choice A is incorrect because in this context, "characterization" would mean a
   literary work's portrayal of characters' psychological experiences and
   motivations, but the text doesn't discuss characterization in The Mule Bone
   specifically or in collaborative works more generally. Choice B is incorrect
   because in this context, "interpretation" would mean the explanation of a literary
   work's meaning or significance, but the text doesn't discuss how readers or critics
   have interpreted The Mule Bone; instead, the text discusses how the play was
   written collaboratively and how the writing process affected the two authors.
   Choice D is incorrect because in this context, "commercialization" would mean
   writing a literary work in such a way as to ensure its commercial appeal, but the
   text never discusses commercial appeal as a factor in the writing of The Mule
   Bone specifically or the writing of collaborative works more generally.

   QUESTION 5

   Choice C is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of how Ofelia Zepeda has contributed to the field of linguistics. As
   used in this context, "extensive" means having a wide or considerable extent. The
   text indicates that Zepeda's many accomplishments in linguistics are varied,
   including teaching linguistics, writing poetry in more than one language, creating
   a grammar book, and co-founding a language institute. This context supports the
   idea that Zepeda's contributions to the field are extensive.

   Choice A is incorrect because the sentence presents Zepeda's accomplishments
   as examples to support the claim made in the first part of the sentence. It wouldn't
   make sense to say that achievements as a professor, poet and author, and
   co-founder of a language institute demonstrate that Zepeda's contributions in her
   field are "pragmatic," or related to practical matters and not involving intellectual
   or artistic matters. Choice B is incorrect because the sentence presents Zepeda's
   accomplishments as a professor, poet and author, and co-founder of a language
   institute as examples to support the claim made in the first part of the sentence.
   There's no reason to believe that the positive achievements listed demonstrate
   that Zepeda's contributions in her field are "controversial," or have caused
   disputes and opposing viewpoints. Choice D is incorrect because in this context,
   "universal" would mean including or covering everything in a group. The sentence
   presents Zepeda's accomplishments as examples to support the claim made in
   the first part of the sentence, and it wouldn't make sense to say that these
   specific achievements--particularly as the author of a grammar book specific to
   the Tohono O'odham language--demonstrate that Zepeda's contributions relate
   to everything in the field of linguistics.

   QUESTION 6

   Choice C is the best answer because it most accurately describes the main
   purpose of the text. The text states that archaeologists recently discovered a
   well-preserved food shop, or thermopolium, in Pompeii, Italy. The text then further
   describes the contents of the discovery and provides an example of what was
   found. Thus, the overall purpose of the text is to present a recent archaeological
   discovery.

4  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   Choice A is incorrect. Although the text states that archaeologists found ancient
   artworks, it doesn't compare these artworks to modern ones or to any other
   artworks. Choice B is incorrect. Although the archaeological discovery discussed
   in the text was made in Italy, the text doesn't provide any information about
   politics or government in Italy. Choice D is incorrect because the text doesn't
   discuss the climate where the archaeological discovery was made or in any other
   region.

   QUESTION 7

   Choice D is the best answer because it most accurately reflects the main purpose
   of the text. The text portrays Miss Pyne as awaiting the arrival of a carriage while
   Martha brings strawberries and flowers from the garden into the house. The text
   also describes the surroundings of the scene, stating that Miss Pyne looks
   "stately and calm," the evening is bright and cool, and birds are singing in the
   garden as the sun sets. Then the last sentence states that the house was "wide
   open to the long-expected guest," which strongly suggests that Miss Pyne's
   anticipation and Martha's activities were in preparation for the guest who is
   expected to arrive in the carriage. Thus, the text depicts the setting and conveys
   what these characters are doing as they await the arrival of their visitor.

   Choice A is incorrect because there is nothing in the text to indicate that the
   characters feel any worry about the guest's arrival. The text indicates that the
   guest was "long-expected," but characterizing Miss Pyne as "stately and calm"
   conflicts with the idea that the characters are worried about the guest. Choice B is
   incorrect because the text describes a moment in time when two characters are
   awaiting the arrival of a visitor rather than an extended period over which
   characters could be seen changing. Choice C is incorrect. Although the text
   describes the activity indoors (Miss Pyne sitting calmly), it describes a higher level
   of activity, not stillness, outside (Martha bringing fruit and flowers and birds
   singing).

   QUESTION 8

   Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately describes the overall
   structure of the text. The narrator begins by explaining how Charlot carefully
   delivers Atlante's letter to Rinaldo, and then relates that Rinaldo feels "transported
   with joy" after reading the letter. Therefore, the overall structure of the text is best
   described as a description of the delivery of a letter followed by the portrayal of a
   character's happiness after reading the letter.

   Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates that the letter has been written;
   there's no explanation why another character hasn't written one. In addition, the
   text's description of Rinaldo "in a melancholy posture" suggests that he's sad and
   thoughtful, not that he's desperate to receive the letter. Choice C is incorrect.
   Although the text states that Charlot won't toss the letter to Rinaldo because she
   doesn't want it to fall, the text doesn't refer to the contents of the letter. Instead,
   the text describes how happy Rinaldo feels after reading it. Choice D is incorrect.
   Although the text does describe Rinaldo's reaction to the letter, the text doesn't
   begin by discussing Atlante's inspiration for writing the letter. Instead, the text
   begins by discussing the delivery of the letter.

5  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   QUESTION 9

   Choice A is the best answer because it best describes how the underlined
   portion functions in the text as a whole. The text says that the increased
   production quotas of food processing companies during World War II enabled
   employees to make better bargains in exchange for their labor. The underlined
   portion presents an example of this increased bargaining power: employees
   requested more favorable benefits, and employers complied because they were
   under pressure to fulfill the demanding terms of their contracts. Thus, the
   underlined portion of the text elaborates on a claim about labor relations in a
   particular industry (food processing) made earlier in the text.

   Choice B is incorrect because there is no indication in the text that the economic
   factors that influenced food processing also influenced other parts of the
   economy; thus, the bargaining described in the underlined portion of the text
   cannot be called an example of a trend. Choice C is incorrect because the
   underlined portion supports the historical narrative of labor activism in food
   processing that is sketched in the text, instead of noting an exception to that
   narrative. Choice D is incorrect because while the underlined portion does
   discuss the demands that workers made in exchange for their labor, it does not
   discuss the identities of the workers.

   QUESTION 10

   Choice D is the best answer because it states why Wang and his team's discovery
   of the Terropterus xiushanensis fossil was significant. The text explains that up
   until Wang and his team's discovery, the only fossil evidence of mixopterids came
   from the paleocontinent of Laurussia. Wang and his team, however, identified
   fossil remains of a mixopterid species from the paleocontinent Gondwana.
   Therefore, the team's discovery was significant because the fossil remains of a
   mixopterid species were outside of the paleocontinent Laurussia.

   Choice A is incorrect. Although the text states that Wang and his team identified
   fossilized remains of a mixopterid species that lived more than 400 million years
   ago, it doesn't indicate that mixopterid fossils previously found by scientists dated
   to a more recent period than that. Choice B is incorrect. Although the text states
   that mixopterids are related to modern arachnids and horseshoe crabs, it doesn't
   suggest that the fossil discovered by Wang and his team confirmed that this
   relationship is closer than scientists had previously thought. Choice C is incorrect
   because the team's fossil established the presence of mixopterids on Gondwana,
   not on Laurussia. Moreover, the text only discusses the fossil in relation to the
   geographical distribution of mixopterids, not in relation to their evolution.

   QUESTION 11

   Choice B is the best answer because it most effectively uses data from the table
   to complete the statement about video game availability. The text states that just
   a few games released in the past are available today and then indicates that there
   is a period of years from which only 14.22 percent of the games released are
   available. The table shows that 14.22 percent of games are still available from the
   years 1995­1999.

6  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   Choice A is incorrect because the years 2000­2004 are not represented in the
   table. Choice C is incorrect because the years 1970­1974 are not represented in
   the table. Choice D is incorrect because the years 1985­1989 correspond to a
   percentage of games still available of 15.38 percent, not 14.22 percent.

   QUESTION 12

   Choice C is the best answer. The table shows the depths below the ocean surface
   at which four species of deep-sea fish live. According to the table, the range of
   depths at which the southern stoplight loosejaw lives is 500­2,000 meters below
   the surface.

   Choice A is incorrect because the table indicates that the southern stoplight
   loosejaw lives 500­2,000 meters below the ocean surface, not at depths more
   than 2,000 meters below the surface. Choice B is incorrect because the table
   indicates that the southern stoplight loosejaw lives 500­2,000 meters below the
   ocean surface, not 150­400 meters below the surface. Choice D is incorrect
   because the table indicates that the southern stoplight loosejaw lives 500­2,000
   meters below the ocean surface, not 250­500 meters below the surface.

   QUESTION 13

   Choice A is the best answer because it effectively uses data from the table to
   complete the statement, identifying the month in which the United States had the
   highest number of housing starts in 2022. According to the table, which shows
   the number of US housing starts from January to April 2022, the highest number
   of housing starts was 1,803 thousand, which occurred in April.

   Choice B is incorrect because March had 1,713 thousand housing starts, which is
   lower than the number of starts in April and in February. Choice C is incorrect
   because January had 1,669 thousand housing starts, which is the lowest of all the
   months listed in the table. Choice D is incorrect because February had 1,771
   thousand housing starts, which is lower than the number of starts in April.

   QUESTION 14

   Choice A is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would
   support the claim about Chambi's photographs. The text describes a student
   advancing the claim that Chambi's photographs "have considerable ethnographic
   value"--meaning that they are valuable as records of cultures--and that they
   "capture diverse elements of Peruvian society" in a respectful way. If it's true that
   Chambi carefully photographed people from a range of different communities in
   Peru as well as photographed the customs and sites of different communities,
   that would lend support to the claim that the photographs have ethnographic
   value as depictions of diverse elements of society in Peru.

   Choice B is incorrect because the student's claim is that Chambi's photographs
   have considerable ethnographic value because they depict diverse elements of
   Peruvian society; the student doesn't claim anything about the technical skill
   demonstrated in the photographs. Choice C is incorrect because neither
   Chambi's reputation nor the locations where his photographs may have been

7  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   published would be relevant to the student's claim that his photographs are
   valuable as an ethnographic record of Peru's diverse society. Choice D is
   incorrect because the popularity among other photographers of the people and
   places that Chambi photographed would be irrelevant to the student's claim that
   Chambi's photographs are valuable as an ethnographic record of Peru's diverse
   society.

   QUESTION 15

   Choice D is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would most
   directly support the researchers' hypothesis about the connection between the
   dusky shark population decline and the eastern oyster population decline. The
   text indicates that although dusky sharks don't usually eat eastern oysters, they
   do consume cownose rays, which are the main predators of eastern oysters. An
   increase in the abundance of cownose rays in the region in response to a decline
   in the abundance of dusky sharks would directly support the researchers'
   hypothesis: a higher number of cownose rays would consume more eastern
   oysters, driving down the oyster population.

   Choice A is incorrect because a finding that there's an association between a
   decline in the regional abundance of some of dusky sharks' prey and the regional
   abundance of dusky sharks wouldn't directly support the researchers' hypothesis
   that a decline in dusky sharks has led to a decline in eastern oysters in the region.
   Although such a finding might help explain why shark abundance has declined, it
   would reveal nothing about whether the shark decline is related to the oyster
   decline. Choice B is incorrect because a finding that eastern oyster abundance
   tends to be greater when dusky sharks and cownose rays are present than when
   only dusky sharks are present wouldn't support the researchers' hypothesis that a
   decline in dusky sharks has led to a decline in eastern oysters in the region. The
   text indicates that the sharks prey on the rays, which are the main predators of the
   oysters; if oyster abundance is found to be greater when rays are present than
   when rays are absent, that would suggest that rays aren't keeping oyster
   abundance down, and thus that a decline in rays' predators, which would be
   expected to lead to an increase in the abundance of rays, wouldn't bring about a
   decline in oyster abundance as the researchers hypothesize. Choice C is
   incorrect because a finding that consumption of eastern oysters by cownose rays
   increased substantially before dusky sharks declined in regional abundance
   wouldn't support the researchers' hypothesis that the decline in dusky sharks has
   led to a decline in eastern oysters in the region. Such a finding would suggest that
   some factor other than shark abundance led to an increase in rays' consumption
   of oysters and thus to a decrease in oyster abundance, thereby weakening the
   researchers' hypothesis.

   QUESTION 16

   Choice C is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would
   support the researchers' hypothesis about the plants' dependence on dissolving
   rock. The text indicates that the roots of the two plant species grow directly into
   quartzite rock, where hairs on the roots secrete acids that dissolve the rock. The
   researchers hypothesize that the plants depend on this process because

8  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   dissolving rock opens spaces for the roots to grow and releases phosphates that
   provide the plants with phosphorus, a vital nutrient. If the plants carry out this
   process of dissolving rock even when the rock already has spaces into which the
   roots could grow, that would support the researchers' hypothesis because it
   suggests that the plants are getting some advantage--such as access to
   phosphorus--from the action of dissolving rock. If the plants don't benefit from
   dissolving rock, they would be expected to grow in the cracks that already exist,
   as doing so would mean that the plants don't have to spend energy creating and
   secreting acids; if, however, the plants create new entry points by dissolving rock
   even when cracks already exist, that would support the hypothesis that they
   depend on dissolving rock for some benefit.

   Choice A is incorrect because the existence of soil-inhabiting members of the
   Velloziaceae family with similar root structures to those of the two species
   discussed in the text wouldn't support the researchers' hypothesis that the
   species discussed in the text depend on dissolving rock. If other such members
   exist, that might suggest that the root structures can serve more functions than
   secreting acids to dissolve rock (since dissolving rock may not be necessary for
   plants living in soil), but that wouldn't suggest anything about whether the species
   discussed in the text benefit from dissolving rock. Choice B is incorrect because
   differences in the proportions of citric and malic acid secreted by the two species
   would be irrelevant to the hypothesis that the plants depend on dissolving rock.
   There's no information in the text to suggest that the proportion of each acid has
   any bearing on the process of dissolving rock or on any benefits the plants might
   receive from that process. Choice D is incorrect because if the two species thrive
   on rocks without phosphates, that would weaken the researchers' hypothesis that
   the plants depend on dissolving rock partly because dissolving rock gives them
   access to phosphates. If the plants can survive on rocks without getting a vital
   nutrient by dissolving those rocks, then either the nutrient isn't actually vital for
   those plants or they can get the nutrient in some way other than by dissolving
   rocks.

   QUESTION 17

   Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of mosquito repellents. The text begins by explaining that many
   repellents work by using natural components to activate multiple odor receptors
   on mosquitoes' antennae, and that new repellents must be created whenever
   mosquitoes become resistant to older ones. The text then highlights a research
   team's discovery that EBF, a molecular component of a chrysanthemum-flower
   extract, can repel mosquitoes by activating a single odor receptor, Or31, that is
   shared by all species of mosquitoes known to carry diseases. The text suggests
   that compared to the repellents mentioned earlier, a repellent that acts on the
   Or31 receptor would be more effective: by noting that all mosquito species known
   to carry diseases share the Or31 receptor, the text suggests that the Or31
   receptor may be unique in this respect, meaning that a repellent such as EBF that
   acts on it would be more effective since it works on a single receptor shared by all
   mosquito species that carry diseases, rather than a combination of receptors that
   is not shared by all species. Once mosquitoes become resistant to EBF, it would

9  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    therefore make sense for researchers to look for other molecular components
    similar to EBF that target the activation of Or31 receptors, since a single such
    component could also repel all disease-carrying mosquitoes.

    Choice B is incorrect because nothing in the text suggests that EBF molecules are
    difficult to extract from chrysanthemums and that investigating alternative
    extraction methods would therefore be useful for developing efficient and
    effective mosquito repellents. Rather, the text suggests that researchers
    developing new mosquito repellents should aim to identify molecular
    components similar to EBF, since that component targets the Or31 odor receptor
    shared by all species of mosquitoes known to carry diseases. Choice C is
    incorrect because nothing in the text suggests that researchers are unaware of
    the precise location of Or31 and other odor receptors in mosquitoes' antennae or
    that knowing this information would be useful for developing efficient and
    effective mosquito repellents. Rather, the text suggests that researchers
    developing new mosquito repellents should aim to identify molecular
    components similar to EBF, which targets the Or31 odor receptor. Choice D is
    incorrect because it doesn't logically follow that the discovery of one odor
    receptor shared by all disease-bearing mosquitoes should lead to further
    research into which repellents might activate the greatest number of odor
    receptors. Rather, the text suggests that researchers developing new mosquito
    repellents should instead search for additional molecular components that, like
    EBF, activate the one odor receptor that is known to be shared by all disease-
    bearing mosquitoes.

    QUESTION 18

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of Shultz's finding about male tanagers. The text explains that because
    carotenoids both contribute to deeply saturated feathers and offer health
    benefits, having deeply saturated feathers is usually "an honest signal" (a true
    indication) that a bird is generally fit. However, Shultz and others have found that
    certain male tanagers can appear to have deeply saturated feathers even if they
    haven't consumed a diet rich in carotenoids, thanks to microstructures in their
    feathers that manipulate light. If those birds aren't necessarily eating carotenoid-
    rich diets, they may actually be less fit than other birds that appear to have
    similarly saturated feathers; this suggests that a male tanager's appearance may
    function as a dishonest signal, or a false indication, of the bird's overall fitness.

    Choice A is incorrect because Shultz's finding suggests that some tanagers can
    signal fitness without consuming the carotenoids that contribute to fitness,
    thereby making those signals dishonest, not that tanagers can give honest
    signals of their fitness without consuming carotenoids. Choice B is incorrect
    because Shultz's finding suggests that the microstructures in certain tanagers'
    feathers can give a dishonest signal of fitness, not that the microstructures are
    less effective than actual pigmentation for signaling fitness. Whether the signal of
    fitness is honest or dishonest has no bearing on how effective the signal is: a
    signal is effective if potential mates behave as though it's true, regardless of
    whether it's actually true. Since there's no information in the text about how
    potential mates respond to the dishonest signals of some tanagers, there's no

10  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    support for the idea that the dishonest signals are less effective than the honest
    signals. Choice C is incorrect because Shultz's finding suggests that certain male
    tanagers may appear to be fitter than they actually are, not that scientists haven't
    determined why tanagers prefer mates with colorful appearances.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is subject-verb
    agreement. The singular verb "has been" agrees in number with the singular
    subject "writing."

    Choice A is incorrect because the plural verb "were" doesn't agree in number with
    the singular subject "writing." Choice B is incorrect because the plural verb "have
    been" doesn't agree in number with the singular subject "writing." Choice D is
    incorrect because the plural verb "are" doesn't agree in number with the singular
    subject "writing."

    QUESTION 20

    Choice B is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of non-finite
    (untensed) verb forms in a sentence. The modal "would," which indicates the
    future from a perspective in the past, should be accompanied by a non-finite plain
    form verb. In this choice, the non-finite plain form verb "create" is used correctly in
    conjunction with the non-finite plain form verb "increase" to describe what the
    lock would do.

    Choice A is incorrect because the finite present tense verb "creates" can't be
    used in this way with the modal "would" to describe what the lock would do.
    Choice C is incorrect because the present participle "creating" can't be used in
    this way with the modal "would" to describe what the lock would do. Choice D is
    incorrect because the finite past tense verb "created" can't be used in this way
    with the modal "would" to describe what the lock would do.

    QUESTION 21

    Choice B is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation around noun phrases. No punctuation is needed because the
    coordinated noun phrase "Thomas Hart Benton and Jackson Pollock" is a
    restrictive appositive, meaning that it provides essential identifying information
    about the noun phrase before it, "the renowned twentieth-century US artists."

    Choice A is incorrect because no punctuation is needed between the noun
    phrase "the renowned twentieth-century US artists" and the restrictive appositive
    "Thomas Hart Benton and Jackson Pollock." Additionally, no punctuation is
    needed between the sentence's subject ("paintings by the renowned twentieth-
    century US artists Thomas Hart Benton and Jackson Pollock") and the main verb
    ("were featured"). Choice C is incorrect because no punctuation is needed
    between the coordinated elements "Thomas Hart Benton" and "Jackson Pollock."
    Additionally, no punctuation is needed between the sentence's subject ("paintings
    by the renowned twentieth-century US artists Thomas Hart Benton and Jackson
    Pollock") and the main verb ("were featured"). Choice D is incorrect because no

11  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    punctuation is needed between the noun phrase "the renowned twentieth-
    century US artists" and the restrictive appositive "Thomas Hart Benton and
    Jackson Pollock."

    QUESTION 22

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation to mark boundaries between supplements and clauses. The comma
    after "equations" is used to separate the independent clause ("Hopper's...
    equation") from the supplementary adverb phrase "though." The colon after
    "though" is used to mark the boundary between the clause ending with "though"
    and the following clause ("as...age"). A colon used in this way introduces
    information that illustrates or explains information that has come before it. In this
    case, the colon after "though" introduces the following explanation of how
    Hopper's subsequent career would involve more than just solving equations: she
    would become a pioneering computer programmer.

    Choice B is incorrect because it results in a comma splice. A comma can't be used
    in this way to join two independent clauses ("Hopper's...though" and "as... age")
    such as these. Choice C is incorrect because it results in an illogical sequence of
    sentences. Placing the period after "equations" and beginning the next sentence
    with "Though" illogically suggests that the following information (that Hopper
    would help usher in the digital age) is contrary to the information in the previous
    sentence (Hopper's subsequent career would involve more than just solving
    equations). Instead, the information that follows supports the information from
    the previous sentence by explaining how her work and influence extended beyond
    solely solving equations. Choice D is incorrect because it results in a run-on
    sentence. The two independent clauses ("Hopper's...though" and "as...age") are
    fused without punctuation.

    QUESTION 23

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is subject-verb
    agreement. The plural verb "attest" agrees in number with the plural subject
    "trailblazing accomplishments."

    Choice A is incorrect because the singular verb "attests" doesn't agree in number
    with the plural subject "trailblazing accomplishments." Choice B is incorrect
    because the singular verb "has attested" doesn't agree in number with the plural
    subject "trailblazing accomplishments." Choice C is incorrect because the
    singular verb "is attesting" doesn't agree in number with the plural subject
    "trailblazing accomplishments."

    QUESTION 24

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is the punctuation of a
    supplementary phrase following a clause. This choice uses a comma to separate
    the supplementary adverb phrase "however" from the independent clause it
    modifies ("They...antiquity") and uses a semicolon to join the first independent
    clause ("They...antiquity") and the second independent clause ("some...literature").

12  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    Further, placing the semicolon after "however" indicates that the information in
    the clause that this is part of (that neoclassical writers were not the first to adopt
    classical literary modes) is contrary to what might be assumed from the
    information in the previous sentence (that the neoclassical writers were unique in
    imitating classical epic poetry and satires).

    Choice A is incorrect because it fails to mark the boundary after "however"
    between the two independent clauses with appropriate punctuation. Choice B is
    incorrect because the comma after "however" can't be used in this way to mark
    the boundary between the two independent clauses. Choice D is incorrect
    because placing the semicolon after "antiquity" illogically indicates that the
    information in the clause that this is part of (that prominent Renaissance figures
    were also influenced by classical literature) is contrary to the information in the
    previous clause (that neoclassical writers were not the first to adopt classical
    literary modes).

    QUESTION 25

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation and verb forms within a sentence. This choice leaves the verb
    "admired" in its nonfinite past participle form to function within a supplementary
    element ("much...followed"). Offset by commas after "works" and "followed," this
    supplementary element interrupts the main clause ("English poet and
    Shakespeare contemporary John Donne's works...had...been essentially
    gathering dust...") with additional information about the works' reception during
    Donne's lifetime.

    Choice A is incorrect because it fails to offset the supplementary element
    ("much...followed") with appropriate punctuation, and using the finite verb "were
    much admired" results in an ungrammatical sentence. Choice B is incorrect
    because using the finite verb "were much admired" results in an ungrammatical
    sentence. Choice D is incorrect because it fails to offset the supplementary
    element ("much...followed") with appropriate punctuation, and using the finite
    verb "had been much admired" results in an ungrammatical sentence.

    QUESTION 26

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is subject-modifier
    placement. This choice makes "silica glass's atomic arrangement" the subject of
    the sentence and places it immediately after the modifying phrase "compared to
    that of alumina glass." In doing so, this choice clearly establishes that silica
    glass's atomic arrangement--and not another noun in the sentence--is being
    compared to the atomic arrangement ("that") of alumina glass.

    Choice A is incorrect because it results in a dangling modifier. The placement of
    the noun phrase "silica glass" immediately after the modifying phrase illogically
    suggests that silica glass itself (rather than its atomic arrangement) is being
    compared to alumina glass's atomic arrangement. Choice B is incorrect because
    it results in a dangling modifier. The placement of the noun phrase "silica glass"
    immediately after the modifying phrase illogically suggests that silica glass itself
    (rather than its atomic arrangement) is being compared to alumina glass's atomic

13  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    arrangement. Choice C is incorrect because it results in a dangling modifier. The
    placement of the noun phrase "a significant disadvantage" immediately after the
    modifying phrase illogically suggests that "a significant disadvantage" is being
    compared to alumina glass's atomic arrangement.

    QUESTION 27

    Choice A is the best answer. "Still" logically signals that the information about
    Sher-Gil in this sentence--that she longed to leave Paris and return to India--
    contrasts with what one would expect after reading about Sher-Gil's experiences
    in Paris in the previous sentences.

    Choice B is incorrect because "therefore" illogically signals that the information
    about Sher-Gil in this sentence is a result or consequence of the descriptions in
    the previous sentences. Instead, this information contrasts with what one would
    expect after reading about Sher-Gil's experiences in Paris. Choice C is incorrect
    because "indeed" illogically signals that the information about Sher-Gil in this
    sentence offers additional emphasis in support of the descriptions in the previous
    sentences. Instead, this information contrasts with what one would expect after
    reading about Sher-Gil's experiences in Paris. Choice D is incorrect because
    "furthermore" illogically signals that the information about Sher-Gil in this
    sentence offers additional support for or confirmation of the descriptions in the
    previous sentences. Instead, this information contrasts with what one would
    expect after reading about Sher-Gil's experiences in Paris.

    QUESTION 28

    Choice B is the best answer. "Specifically" logically signals that the information in
    this sentence--that Molina and Rowland's research laid the foundation for a later
    treaty--provides specific, precise details elaborating on the previous sentence's
    more general claim about the influence of the research.

    Choice A is incorrect because "regardless" illogically signals that the information
    in this sentence is true despite the previous sentence's claim about the influence
    of Molina and Rowland's research. Instead, this information--that the research laid
    the foundation for a later treaty--provides specific details elaborating on the
    previous claim. Choice C is incorrect because "however" illogically signals that the
    information in this sentence contrasts with the previous sentence's claim about
    the influence of Molina and Rowland's research. Instead, this information--that
    the research laid the foundation for a later treaty--provides specific details
    elaborating on the previous claim. Choice D is incorrect because "earlier"
    illogically signals that the information in this sentence occurred at a time before
    Molina and Rowland's research influenced the fight against CFCs. Instead, this
    information--that the research laid the foundation for a later treaty--provides
    specific details elaborating on the previous claim about the research's influence.

14  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 29

    Choice C is the best answer. "Indeed" logically signals that the description of the
    art installation in this sentence--its blue room and preening unicorn that leave
    visitors "dazzled and confused"--offers additional emphasis in support of the
    previous sentence's claim about the installation's "whimsical yet perplexing
    experience."

    Choice A is incorrect because "second" illogically signals that the description in
    this sentence is a second, separate claim from the previous sentence's claim
    about the installation's "whimsical yet perplexing experience." Instead, the
    specific details describing the installation emphasize and support the previous
    claim. Choice B is incorrect because "instead" illogically signals that the
    description in this sentence is an alternative to the previous sentence's claim
    about the installation's "whimsical yet perplexing experience." Rather, the specific
    details describing the installation emphasize and support that claim. Choice D is
    incorrect because "nevertheless" illogically signals that the description in this
    sentence is true despite the previous sentence's claim about the installation's
    "whimsical yet perplexing experience." Instead, the specific details describing the
    installation emphasize and support that claim.

    QUESTION 30

    Choice A is the best answer. The sentence emphasizes the distance covered by
    the Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike, noting that the turnpike, which
    connected the two Pennsylvania cities in its name, was sixty-two miles long.

    Choice B is incorrect. The sentence emphasizes the significance of the turnpike; it
    doesn't emphasize the distance that the turnpike covered. Choice C is incorrect.
    While the sentence mentions that the turnpike connected two Pennsylvania cities,
    it doesn't emphasize the specific distance covered by the turnpike. Choice D is
    incorrect. The sentence emphasizes when the turnpike was built; it doesn't
    emphasize the distance that the turnpike covered.

    QUESTION 31

    Choice C is the best answer. The sentence emphasizes the aim, or goal, of the
    research study, noting what Terada set out to do: determine whether some of the
    Moon's oxygen was coming from Earth.

    Choice A is incorrect. The sentence focuses on how the Kaguya satellite collected
    data; it doesn't emphasize the aim of the research study. Choice B is incorrect.
    While the sentence mentions what Terada was curious about before conducting
    the research study, it doesn't emphasize his study's aim. Choice D is incorrect.
    The sentence presents the research study's conclusion; it doesn't emphasize the
    study's aim.

15  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 32

    Choice A is the best answer. The sentence emphasizes the aim of the research
    study by highlighting what the researchers conducting the study wanted to
    know--specifically, which factors influence clutch size among lizards.

    Choice B is incorrect because the sentence emphasizes what researchers
    determined at the end of the study, not what the study's aim was. Choice C is
    incorrect because the sentence emphasizes a finding from the research study,
    not the aim of the study. Choice D is incorrect because the sentence emphasizes
    the research study's methodology, not its aim.

    QUESTION 33

    Choice D is the best answer. The sentence uses information from the notes to
    make a generalization about the kind of study Glickman, Brown, and Song
    conducted. Specifically, the sentence indicates that the study was of a kind that
    used statistical methods to address questions of authorship within the field of
    music.

    Choice A is incorrect because the sentence summarizes the methodology and
    findings of a particular analysis of a single song; it doesn't make a generalization
    about the kind of study conducted. Choice B is incorrect because the sentence
    mentions the data and conclusion of a particular analysis of a single song; it
    doesn't make a generalization about the kind of study conducted. Choice C is
    incorrect because the sentence focuses on a specific conclusion from a
    particular analysis of a single song; it doesn't make a generalization about the kind
    of study conducted.

16  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Reading and Writing

    Module 2

    (33 questions)

    QUESTION 1

    Choice B is the best answer because it best completes the text's discussion of
    how viewers respond to colors. The text presents something art scholars have
    noted and gives the example of people tending to find paintings with blues and
    greens more appealing than those with yellows and oranges. This context
    conveys that certain colors are more "attractive to" viewers than other colors are.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text indicates only that people tend to find
    some colors more appealing than others and gives no indication that certain
    colors are ever "confusing for," or puzzling to, viewers. Choice C is incorrect
    because the text discusses the relative appeal of certain colors in paintings but
    gives no indication that any colors would ever be "corrected by" viewers, or
    somehow fixed or improved by them. Choice D is incorrect because it wouldn't
    make much sense to say that some colors are more "similar to" viewers than
    others, which would suggest that colors and viewers are alike to different
    degrees. Further, the text primarily emphasizes a difference, not a similarity, in
    how appealing paintings tend to be based on the colors they contain.

    QUESTION 2

    Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of how biodiversity loss due to invasive species can be avoided. As
    used in this context, "preventable" means able to be stopped or kept from
    happening. The text indicates that "people can take simple steps" to avoid
    bringing possible invasive species into new environments. It presents these steps
    as an example of how biodiversity loss due to invasive species is preventable.

    Choice B is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense to say that a simple step like
    washing your shoes after traveling is an example of biodiversity loss due to
    invasive species being "undeniable," or something that can't be proved to be
    wrong. Although the text may suggest that biodiversity loss due to invasive
    species is something that really happens, the word that completes the text must

17  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    make the first sentence into an assertion that is illustrated by the second
    sentence, and the second sentence illustrates the idea that biodiversity loss due
    to invasive species is preventable, not undeniable. Choice C is incorrect because
    it wouldn't make sense to say that a simple step like washing your shoes after
    traveling is an example of biodiversity loss due to invasive species being
    "common," or something that happens regularly. Additionally, the text doesn't
    provide any information about how frequently invasive species cause biodiversity
    loss. Choice D is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense to say that a simple
    step like washing your shoes after traveling is an example of biodiversity loss due
    to invasive species being "concerning," or something that is troubling or causes
    worry. Although the text implies that the phenomenon of biodiversity loss due to
    invasive species is itself a concerning phenomenon, the word that completes the
    text must make the first sentence into an assertion that is illustrated by the
    second sentence, and the second sentence illustrates the idea that biodiversity
    loss due to invasive species is preventable, not concerning.

    QUESTION 3

    Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion about recycling plastics. In this context, "inadequate" means not
    satisfactory. The text indicates that the mechanical plastic-recycling process
    affects the environment and causes "the loss of material quality." The text
    contrasts that with Chazovachii's chemical plastic-recycling process, which is
    cleaner and produces a desirable product. The text's emphasis on the negative
    aspects of mechanical recycling suggests that it is inadequate in terms of
    environmental impact and the quality of the material the process yields.

    Choice A is incorrect because in this context "resilient" would mean able to
    withstand difficulty and the text does not characterize the plastic-recycling
    process as having this quality or describe any difficulties that these processes
    might need to overcome. Choice C is incorrect because in this context "dynamic"
    would mean constantly changing. Although the text suggests that there have
    been changes in the field of recycling, as is the case with the advent of
    Chazovachii's chemical recycling process, there is nothing to suggest that the
    mechanical process itself has changed or is prone to change. Choice D is
    incorrect because in this context "satisfactory" would mean acceptable but not
    perfect. The text mentions only shortcomings of the mechanical process
    (environmental effects and lower material quality), so the text more strongly
    supports a negative view of this process and provides no evidence that it would
    be considered satisfactory.

    QUESTION 4

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of the Three Sisters intercropping system. As used in this context,
    "intricate" would mean made up of complexly related elements. The text indicates
    that in the Three Sisters system, maize, squash, and beans form a "web of
    relations" in which the crops interact in various ways. The text's description of
    these interactions--the bean vines growing on the maize stalks, the squash vines
    keeping weeds away, and the beans adding nutrients that the maize and squash
    use--provides context suggesting that this "web of relations" is intricate.

18  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Choice A is incorrect because describing the relationship among the crops in the
    Three Sisters system as "indecipherable," or impossible to comprehend, would
    not make sense in context. Although the text presents the relationship as
    complex, the text's description of the role that each crop plays makes it clear that
    the relationship is well understood, not indecipherable. Choice B is incorrect
    because the text discusses the practical benefits that each plant in the Three
    Sisters system provides to other members of the system, showing that the
    relationship among the crops that make up the system is not "ornamental," or
    mainly serving a decorative purpose. Choice C is incorrect because describing
    the relationship among the crops in the Three Sisters system as "obscure," or
    unknown or poorly understood, would not make sense in context. Although the
    text presents the relationship as complex, the text's description of the role that
    each crop plays makes it clear that the relationship is well understood, not
    obscure.

    QUESTION 5

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of baleen whale accessory spleens. In this context, "latent" means
    dormant or functionless. The text sets up a contrast between the idea that baleen
    whale accessory spleens appear not to have a function and the research
    indicating that the accessory spleen may actually have a role in supporting the
    whales' diving mechanisms. This context therefore conveys the idea that the
    assumption that baleen whale accessory spleens are latent may be incorrect.

    Choice A is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense to say that the role of the
    accessory spleen is "replicable," or capable of being reproduced. The text
    indicates that the role of the accessory spleen seems to have no function, but
    some researchers think it does have a role; the text doesn't address whether the
    role of the accessory spleen could or couldn't be reproduced. Choice B is
    incorrect because suggesting that the role of the accessory spleen is
    "predetermined," or decided in advance, wouldn't make sense in context.
    Although the researchers may agree that the role of the accessory spleen or any
    other organ hasn't been determined in advance, the text focuses on the idea that
    the accessory spleen was thought to have been functionless but may in fact
    serve an active role for baleen whales. Choice C is incorrect because it's the
    opposite of what the context of the text is conveying. The second sentence of the
    text indicates that baleen whale accessory spleens may not be useless, not that
    they aren't "operative," or functional.

    QUESTION 6

    Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately states the main purpose
    of the text. After providing a brief introduction to computer scientist Luis von Ahn,
    the text focuses on discussing how von Ahn's digitization work led to the
    invention of a digital security test known as reCAPTCHA.

    Choice B is incorrect because the text doesn't address how digital scanners work.
    Choice C is incorrect. Although the text mentions von Ahn's book-digitizing
    project, that information is provided as a detail, not as the main purpose of the
    text. Choice D is incorrect because the text doesn't provide any indication of
    reCAPTCHA's popularity; instead, it describes reCAPTCHA's origin.

19  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 7

    Choice C is the best answer because it most accurately describes the overall
    structure of the text. Throughout the text, the speaker characterizes nighttime as
    if it were a person who wears clothing ("a garment" that is "velvet soft" and "violet
    blue") and a veil "over her face" and who moves her hands "slowly with their
    gem-starred light" through her dark hair. Thus, the text is structured as an
    extended comparison of night to a human being.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text never mentions any particular location;
    instead, it focuses on presenting a single description of night as a person with
    certain clothing and features. Choice B is incorrect because the text doesn't make
    any reference to the sun or sunrise; instead, it focuses on presenting a single
    image of night as a person with certain clothing and features. Choice D is
    incorrect. Rather than describing how nighttime changes seasonally (or in any
    other way), the text presents a single image of night as a person with certain
    clothing and features.

    QUESTION 8

    Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately portrays the main
    purpose of the text. At the beginning of the text, Tom asserts that he and the
    other people staging the play are doing so only for "a little amusement among
    ourselves" and aren't interested in attracting an audience or any attention with the
    production. Then, Tom promises that the play they chose is modest and
    appropriate, and he further reasons that using the well-written prose of "some
    respectable author" is better than using their own words. Overall, the main
    purpose of the text is to convey Tom's promise that the play will be inoffensive
    and involve only a few people.

    Choice B is incorrect because the text doesn't indicate that Tom had earlier
    intentions for the play's performance or that anything has changed since the
    group first decided to stage a play. Instead, the text focuses on how harmless the
    entire endeavor will be. Choice C is incorrect. Although Tom mentions that using
    the words of a "respectable author" will be better than using their own words, he
    never addresses the idea that the people around him generally aren't skilled
    enough to stage a play. Choice D is incorrect because in the text Tom specifically
    says that they "want no audience, no publicity," which indicates that they don't
    plan on promoting the play at all.

    QUESTION 9

    Choice A is the best answer because based on Text 2, it represents how
    Behrenfeld and colleagues would most likely respond to the "conventional
    wisdom" discussed in Text 1. The conventional wisdom cited holds the opinion
    that when there is species diversity within a phytoplankton population, "one
    species should emerge after outcompeting the rest"--that is, after being so
    successful in competing for resources that the other species vanish from the
    population. However, Text 2 explains that according to Behrenfeld and colleagues,
    phytoplankton are so small and spaced so far apart in the water that there is
    "much less" direct competition for resources within phytoplankton populations
    than scientists had previously thought.

20  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Choice B is incorrect because Text 2 never discusses whether routine
    replenishment of ocean nutrients affects competition between phytoplankton
    species. Choice C is incorrect because the interspecies competition discussed in
    both texts is specifically between phytoplankton species, and neither text
    considers whether phytoplankton compete for resources with larger
    nonphytoplankton species. Choice D is incorrect because according to Text 2,
    Behrenfeld and colleagues argue that water density decreases, not increases,
    competition between phytoplankton species.

    QUESTION 10

    Choice D is the best answer because it most accurately describes what the
    narrator and Mario did while riding in the car. The text describes a car trip that the
    narrator is taking with her family. The text states that during the car ride, the
    narrator and Mario "played games" to see how many different license plates they
    could spot.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text doesn't mention the narrator and Mario
    reading during the car ride and instead describes them playing games. Choice B
    is incorrect because the text doesn't mention the narrator and Mario singing
    songs during the car ride and instead describes them playing games. Choice C is
    incorrect because the text doesn't mention the narrator and Mario sleeping
    during the car ride and instead describes them playing games.

    QUESTION 11

    Choice B is the best answer because it presents a statement about how Richard
    Wagner achieved moments of extremely high volume in his operas that is
    supported by the text. The text states that European composers experimented
    with volume in their works by increasing the number of musicians in the orchestra
    and provides the example of Wagner, who "added more horns, trombones, and
    tubas to the orchestra." The text explains that by having more of these
    instruments playing at the same time, the overall volume of the orchestra could be
    dramatically increased at key moments in Wagner's operas.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text never indicates that Wagner moved his
    operas indoors to achieve moments of extremely high volume, nor does it indicate
    that his operas were previously performed outdoors. The only technique
    discussed in the text for achieving extremely high volume is Wagner's addition of
    more instruments to create a bigger, louder orchestra. Choice C is incorrect
    because the text never says that Wagner built or used a specially designed
    concert hall to increase volume through echoes. The only technique discussed in
    the text is Wagner's addition of more instruments to create a bigger, louder
    orchestra. Choice D is incorrect because the text never mentions any special
    training for singers related to volume or singing for extended periods. The text's
    focus is entirely on the orchestra and how Wagner and other European
    composers used instruments to experiment with volume in their musical works.

21  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 12

    Choice C is the best answer because it presents a statement about the
    difrasismo in cuauhtli in ocelotl that is directly supported by the text. The text
    begins by describing difrasismo, a device used in Classical Nahuatl poetry. The
    text then mentions the device's two functions: a formal one (giving structure to
    lines of verse) and a ritualistic one. The text indicates that the relation between the
    words in a difrasismo may appear tenuous without the additional information
    supplied by Aztec ceremonial culture but that the meaning becomes intelligible in
    the context of that information. Therefore, the difrasismo's apparent obscurity
    can be resolved when considered in the proper cultural context.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text doesn't indicate that the two nouns used in
    a difrasismo are semantically equivalent; instead, the text indicates that the two
    nouns used in a difrasismo make up a single metaphor whose meaning is often
    intelligible only in the context of information supplied by Aztec ceremonial culture.
    Choice B is incorrect because the text doesn't indicate that there's a relationship
    between the formal function of the difrasismo and the difrasismo's intelligibility.
    Additionally, the text suggests that present-day readers who are familiar with
    Aztec ceremonial culture wouldn't find the difrasismo to be unintelligible. Choice D
    is incorrect because the text doesn't indicate that the frequency of difrasismo's
    use in Classical Nahuatl is a necessary feature of intelligibility: the text indicates
    that an infrequently used difrasismo would presumably also be intelligible to
    members of an Aztec audience who are sufficiently familiar with Aztec ceremonial
    culture.

    QUESTION 13

    Choice D is the best answer because it most accurately states the main idea of
    the text. The text explains that economist Adam Smith's famous metaphor of the
    invisible hand was putatively (that is, widely assumed but not proven) intended to
    illustrate a robust model (a consistently accurate generalization) of how
    individuals pursuing their own economic interests can create broader benefits for
    the population. The text then emphasizes the lack of affirmative evidence for this
    idea by calling out the term "putatively," and explaining that, according to Gavin
    Kennedy, Smith used the metaphor only once in his works, in reference to specific
    circumstances related to the now-outdated economic view known as
    mercantilism, and that the metaphor didn't garner much attention until
    economists in the twentieth century held it up as a paradigm (a theoretical
    framework in the field) and thereby implied that Smith shared some of their views
    on economics. By emphasizing "putatively," the text implies that there is no
    independent reason to believe that Smith would agree with the metaphor's use
    outside of the specific context for which he wrote it and that, therefore, the
    twentieth-century economists who used it did so to support their own views
    without regard for the metaphor's importance to Smith's work.

    Choice A is incorrect. Although the text indicates that Smith's metaphor was
    largely ignored until some twentieth-century economists revived it and bolstered
    its status, the text suggests that the later economists used Smith's metaphor to
    self-servingly boost their own work while ignoring the original context in which

22  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Smith wrote it. Moreover, the statement in this choice fails to reflect the text's
    emphasis on Smith's limited use of the metaphor in his work. Choice B is
    incorrect. Although the text indicates that some twentieth-century economists
    altered the significance of Smith's metaphor, the text doesn't suggest that the
    metaphor is a "useful model" of how aggregate benefits arise from individuals'
    selfish actions, let alone that this usefulness is unaffected by taking the metaphor
    out of its original context. Choice C is incorrect. Although the text indicates that
    Smith's metaphor was intended as a model of how individuals acting in their own
    interest produce aggregate benefits and it was written within the context of the
    now-outdated economic theory of mercantilism, these points are subordinate to
    the primary idea in the text, which is that Smith's use of the metaphor was tightly
    constrained but twentieth-century economists ignored the original context so
    that they could use the metaphor to suggest, without support, that Smith would
    agree with their economic views.

    QUESTION 14

    Choice B is the best answer because it provides the most direct support from the
    table for the claim that two languages can convey similar amounts of information
    even if they're spoken at different rates. The table shows the approximate rates at
    which five languages are spoken and the rates at which those five languages
    convey information. Vietnamese is spoken at around 5.3 syllables per second,
    whereas Spanish is spoken at around 7.7 syllables per second, but the two
    languages convey information at very similar rates: Vietnamese at a rate of around
    42.5 bits per second and Spanish at a rate of around 42.0 bits per second. Thus,
    the description of Vietnamese conveying information at around the same rate that
    Spanish does despite being spoken more slowly supports the claim in the text
    that languages can convey the same amount of information even if spoken at
    different rates.

    Choice A is incorrect because it isn't true that Thai and Hungarian have the lowest
    rates of speech of the five languages shown. According to the table, Hungarian is
    spoken at around 5.9 syllables per second, which is faster than Vietnamese
    (5.3 syllables per second). Additionally, even if this statement were true, the
    assertion that two languages are spoken the slowest and convey information the
    slowest wouldn't support the claim that languages can convey the same amount
    of information even if they're spoken at different rates. Choice C is incorrect
    because it isn't true that the fastest-spoken language (Spanish, at 7.7 syllables
    per second) also conveys information the fastest: Spanish conveys information at
    42.0 bits per second, which is slower than the 42.5 bits-per-second rate at which
    Vietnamese conveys information. Additionally, even if this statement were true,
    the assertion that the language spoken the fastest also conveys information the
    fastest has no bearing on the claim that languages can convey the same amount
    of information even if they're spoken at different rates. Choice D is incorrect
    because it isn't true that Serbian conveys information faster than Spanish does.
    According to the table, Serbian conveys information at a rate of around 39.1 bits
    per second, which is slower than the 42.0 bits-per-second rate at which Spanish
    conveys information.

23  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 15

    Choice C is the best answer because it accurately describes data from the table
    that support Barrett and Rayfield's suggestion about bite force estimates.
    According to the text, Barrett and Rayfield believe that estimates of dinosaur bite
    force may be strongly influenced by the methods used to produce them--that is,
    that different methods may produce significantly different results. The table
    shows that the studies by Bates and Falkingham and by Cost et al. used the same
    estimation method (muscular and skeletal modeling) and produced similar bite
    force estimates (approximately 35,000­57,000 newtons and 35,000­63,000
    newtons, respectively). The study by Meers, however, used body-mass scaling
    and produced a much higher bite force estimate (183,000­235,000 newtons),
    while the study by Gignac and Erickson used tooth-bone interaction analysis and
    produced a much lower bite force estimate (8,000­34,000 newtons). The fact that
    one method produced similar estimates in two different studies and that two
    different methods used in other studies produced substantially different
    estimates supports the idea that dinosaur bite force estimates are significantly
    influenced by the methodology used to produce them.

    Choice A is incorrect because it inaccurately describes data from the table. The
    table does show that the studies by Meers and by Cost et al. used different
    estimation methods and produced very different ranges of estimated dinosaur
    bite force, which would support Barrett and Rayfield's suggestion that different
    methodologies may produce significantly different estimates. However, the table
    doesn't show that the study by Meers produced the lowest estimated maximum
    bite force while the study by Cost et al. produced the highest. In fact, the study by
    Meers estimated a maximum bite force of approximately 235,000 newtons, which
    is the highest of all the estimated maximums. Choice B is incorrect. Although the
    data from Gignac and Ericson's study are accurately described, a single set of
    findings from one study using only one methodology can't show that different
    methodologies may produce significantly different dinosaur bite force estimates,
    as Barrett and Rayfield suggest. Choice D is incorrect. Although the table shows
    that the maximum bite force estimated by Cost et al. was higher than that
    estimated by Bates and Falkingham, the difference is relatively small; in fact, both
    teams estimated a minimum bite force of approximately 35,000 newtons and a
    maximum bite force close to approximately 60,000 newtons. Because these
    findings demonstrate that a single methodology (muscular and skeletal modeling)
    produced similar overall results in two studies, the findings don't support Barrett
    and Rayfield's suggestion that different methodologies may produce significantly
    different dinosaur bite force estimates.

    QUESTION 16

    Choice A is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would most
    strongly support the researchers' claim that they found evidence that
    experiencing awe can make people feel more connected to others and thus more
    likely to behave altruistically (with beneficial and unselfish concern for others).
    According to the text, the researchers tested for this effect by first having
    participants look at either something known to be awe-inspiring (very tall trees) or
    something ordinary (a plain building) and then purposely spilling pens near the

24  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    participants. The finding that participants who had looked at the trees helped pick
    up significantly more pens than did participants who had looked at the building
    would support the researchers' claim by demonstrating that the people who had
    experienced awe behaved more altruistically when the experimenter needed help
    than the other participants did.

    Choice B is incorrect because a finding about helpful participants using positive
    words to describe the trees and the building after the experiment was over
    wouldn't have any bearing on the researchers' claim that experiencing awe
    increases altruistic behavior. The text doesn't address the use of positive words
    to describe things or suggest any connection between using such words and
    having experienced awe, so that behavior wouldn't serve as evidence that
    experiencing awe played a role in promoting helpful behavior. Choice C is
    incorrect because a finding that participants who didn't help the experimenter
    were significantly more likely than others to report having experienced awe
    whether they had looked at the building or the trees would weaken the
    researchers' claim that experiencing awe increases altruistic behavior by
    suggesting that the opposite might be true--that experiencing awe is in fact
    linked to choosing not to act in a way that benefits someone else. Choice D is
    incorrect because a finding about participants noticing that the experimenter had
    dropped the pens wouldn't have any bearing on the researchers' claim about
    people behaving altruistically. Being aware of a challenge or problem isn't
    necessarily beneficial on its own and isn't the same as offering help, so the finding
    wouldn't support the idea that experiencing awe increases altruistic behavior.

    QUESTION 17

    Choice C is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of the sweet potato in Polynesia. The text indicates that the sweet
    potato is found in Polynesia but originated in South America, and that the sweet
    potato was being cultivated by Native Hawaiians and other Indigenous peoples in
    Polynesia long before sea voyages between South America and Polynesia began.
    The text goes on to note that research by Muńoz-Rodríguez and colleagues has
    established that the Polynesian varieties of sweet potato split from South
    American varieties more than 100,000 years ago, which is thousands of years
    before humans settled in Polynesia. If Polynesian peoples were cultivating the
    sweet potato before sea voyages between Polynesia and South America began,
    and if Polynesian varieties of sweet potato diverged from South American
    varieties well before people were in Polynesia, it can reasonably be concluded
    that humans didn't play a role in bringing the sweet potato to Polynesia.

    Choice A is incorrect. The text doesn't provide any information about when the
    sweet potato began to be cultivated in South America, so there's no support for
    the conclusion that cultivation began in Polynesia before it began in South
    America. Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates that the sweet potato
    was being cultivated in Polynesia long before sea journeys between Polynesia and
    South America began. Therefore, it wouldn't be reasonable to conclude that
    Polynesian peoples acquired the sweet potato from South American peoples.
    Additionally, the text indicates that the Polynesian varieties of sweet potato
    diverged from the South American varieties thousands of years before people

25  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    settled in Polynesia, which suggests that the sweet potato was already present in
    Polynesia when people arrived. Choice D is incorrect because the text states that
    the domestic sweet potato, which is found in Polynesia, descends from a wild
    South American plant, not from a domesticated South American plant. The only
    people that the text describes as cultivating the sweet potato are Native
    Hawaiians and other Indigenous peoples of Polynesia.

    QUESTION 18

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of the morphology (form and structure) of sea stars, a type of
    echinoderm. The text indicates that echinoderms have radially symmetrical body
    plans (symmetrical around a central point, usually in the form of a star), whereas
    most animals have bilaterally symmetrical body plans (symmetrical along an axis
    running from head to tail through a trunk). According to the text, sea stars are
    unusual echinoderms because, despite their radial body plan, they descended
    from known bilateral ancestors. This shift in body plan was thought to be a
    process of losing the genetic markers associated with the head region. The text
    explains that by comparing the genes of one sea star species (P. miniata) to those
    of a close relative, the acorn worm, researchers determined that instead, anterior
    (head) genes are active across the sea star's entire body, posterior (tail) genes are
    active in limited, peripheral locations of the body, and no trunk-related genes are
    active. This finding strongly suggests that, rather than becoming "headless" as
    they evolved from a bilateral ancestor, sea stars developed a body plan consisting
    almost entirely of a head region with a minimal tail region and no trunk region
    present.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text doesn't identify how any particular region
    of sea stars' bodies influences the layout of sea stars' radial symmetry. Moreover,
    the text indicates that the radial symmetry of echinoderms is "usually starlike," not
    that a starlike layout distinguishes sea stars from other echinoderms. Choice B is
    incorrect because the text doesn't suggest that the idea that sea stars evolved
    from an ancestor with bilateral symmetry is incorrect (describing the bilateral
    origin as "known") and doesn't address any body plans other than those with
    radial or bilateral symmetry. The text strongly suggests that rather than revealing
    something about sea stars' origin, Formery et al.'s findings contradict the
    assumption that the current body plan of sea stars is "headless." Choice C is
    incorrect because the text suggests that Formery et al. were able to make
    determinations about P. miniata sea stars' body plan based on the comparability
    of genetic markers between P. miniata and S. kowalevskii acorn worms. The text
    indicates only that little or no activity was observed in certain types of genes
    associated with body development in P. miniata, not that those genes turned out
    to largely differ from body-development genes in S. kowalevskii.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is finite and nonfinite
    verb forms within a sentence. A main clause requires a finite verb to perform the
    action of the subject (in this case, "embryos"), and this choice supplies the clause
    with the finite present tense verb "enter" to indicate how the embryos achieve
    diapause.

26  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Choice B is incorrect because the nonfinite to-infinitive "to enter" doesn't supply
    the main clause with a finite verb. Choice C is incorrect because the nonfinite
    participle "having entered" doesn't supply the main clause with a finite verb.
    Choice D is incorrect because the nonfinite participle "entering" doesn't supply
    the main clause with a finite verb.

    QUESTION 20

    Choice B is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of verbs to
    express tense. In this choice, the past perfect verb "had doubled" properly
    indicates that the doubling of the organization's initial membership occurred
    during a specific period before the present (between the organization's founding
    in 1967 and the end of the 1990s).

    Choice A is incorrect because the present perfect verb "has doubled" doesn't
    indicate that the organization's doubling of its initial membership occurred during
    a specific period in the past. Choice C is incorrect because the present tense verb
    "doubles" doesn't indicate that the organization's doubling of its initial
    membership occurred during a specific period in the past. Choice D is incorrect
    because the future tense verb "will double" doesn't indicate that the organization's
    doubling of its initial membership occurred during a specific period in the past.

    QUESTION 21

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is punctuation use
    between sentences. In this choice, the period after "percent" is used correctly to
    mark the boundary between one sentence ("After...percent") and another ("Such...
    up").

    Choice A is incorrect because it results in a comma splice. A comma can't be used
    in this way to mark the boundary between sentences. Choice B is incorrect.
    Without a comma preceding it, the conjunction "and" can't be used in this way to
    join sentences. Choice D is incorrect because it results in a run-on sentence. The
    sentences ("After...percent" and "Such...up") are fused without punctuation and/or
    a conjunction.

    QUESTION 22

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is finite verb use in a
    main clause. A main clause requires a finite verb to perform the action of the
    subject (in this case, Ashford's "gestures" and "habit"), and this choice supplies
    the finite past tense verb "helped" to indicate what Ashford's gestures and habit
    helped accomplish.

    Choice B is incorrect because the non-finite participle "helping" doesn't supply
    the main clause with a finite verb. Choice C is incorrect because the relative
    clause "that helped" doesn't supply the main clause with a finite verb. Choice D is
    incorrect because the non-finite to-infinitive "to help" doesn't supply the main
    clause with a finite verb.

27  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 23

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is the punctuation of a
    supplementary element within a sentence. The dash after "Springs" pairs with the
    dash after "earth" to separate the supplementary element "in this case, the
    porous rocks of the hills around Hot Springs" from the rest of the sentence.

    Choice A is incorrect because it fails to use appropriate punctuation to separate
    the supplementary element from the rest of the sentence. Choice B is incorrect
    because a colon can't be paired with a dash in this way to separate the
    supplementary element from the rest of the sentence. Choice D is incorrect
    because a comma can't be paired with a dash in this way to separate the
    supplementary element from the rest of the sentence.

    QUESTION 24

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of a colon
    within a sentence. In this choice, the colon is used in a conventional way to
    introduce the following description of how the number of jams available varied.

    Choice B is incorrect because it creates a comma splice. A comma can't be used
    in this way to join two main clauses ("the number...varied" and "some...six").
    Choice C is incorrect because it results in an illogical and confusing sentence.
    Using the conjunction "while" to join the main clause ("the number...varied") with
    the following clause's description of the number of jams available suggests that
    the variation in the number of jams is in contrast to some shoppers having
    twenty-four options. Choice D is incorrect because it results in an illogical and
    confusing sentence. Using "while" in this way suggests that the number of jams
    available varied during the time in which some shoppers had twenty-four options
    and others had six. The sentence makes clear, however, that what follows "varied"
    is a description of the variation, not a separate, simultaneous occurrence.

    QUESTION 25

    Choice B is the best answer. The convention being tested is the punctuation of
    items in a complex series (a series including internal punctuation). In this choice,
    the semicolon after "Lagos" is conventionally used to separate the first item ("The
    Joys...Lagos") and the second item ("A Kind...Nigeria") in the series. Further, the
    comma after "Marriage" correctly separates the title "A Kind of Marriage" from the
    supplementary phrase ("a television...Nigeria") that describes it.

    Choice A is incorrect because the comma after "Lagos" doesn't match the
    semicolon used later in the series to separate the second item ("A Kind...Nigeria")
    from the third item ("and...autobiography"). Choice C is incorrect because the
    comma after "Lagos" doesn't match the semicolon used later in the series to
    separate the second item ("A Kind...Nigeria") from the third item ("and...
    autobiography"). Additionally, a colon can't be used in this way to separate the title
    "A Kind of Marriage" from the supplementary phrase ("a television...Nigeria") that
    describes it. Choice D is incorrect because it fails to use appropriate punctuation
    to separate the title "A Kind of Marriage" from the supplementary phrase ("a
    television...Nigeria") that describes it.

28  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 26

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation within a sentence. This choice correctly uses a comma to separate
    the supplementary adverb "though" from the preceding main clause ("Jetties can
    sometimes have the opposite effect") and uses a semicolon to join the next main
    clause ("obstructing...areas") to the rest of the sentence. Further, placing the
    semicolon after "though" logically indicates that the information earlier in this
    sentence (that jetties can sometimes cause erosion) is contrary to what might be
    assumed from the information in the previous sentence (that jetties are often
    constructed for the purpose of protecting coastlines from erosion).

    Choice B is incorrect because it fails to mark the boundary between the two main
    clauses with appropriate punctuation. With "though...areas" functioning as a
    subordinate clause following the comma, this choice illogically indicates that the
    following information (that obstructing the natural flow of sand along the shore
    can sometimes lead to erosion) is contrary to the information earlier in the
    sentence (that jetties can sometimes cause erosion). Instead, the information
    following "though" supports the previous claim about the erosive effects of
    jetties. Choice C is incorrect because it's not conventional to use a semicolon in
    this way to separate a main clause from a dependent clause. Further, it illogically
    indicates that the following information (that obstructing the natural flow of sand
    along the shore can sometimes lead to erosion) is contrary to the information
    earlier in the sentence (that jetties can sometimes cause erosion). Instead, the
    information following "though" supports the previous claim about the erosive
    effects of jetties. Choice D is incorrect because it results in a comma splice.
    Commas can't be used in this way to set off a supplementary word or phrase
    between two main clauses.

    QUESTION 27

    Choice A is the best answer. "In fact" logically signals that the information in this
    sentence about the large number of recordings in ANLA's collection emphasizes
    and supports the previous claim that ANLA is known for its impressive audio
    collection.

    Choice B is incorrect because "after" illogically signals that the information in this
    sentence occurs later in a sequence of events than the previous claim about
    ANLA's impressive audio collection. Instead, the information about the large
    number of recordings emphasizes and supports that claim. Choice C is incorrect
    because "regardless" illogically signals that the information in this sentence is
    true despite the previous claim about ANLA's impressive audio collection. Instead,
    the information about the large number of recordings emphasizes and supports
    that claim. Choice D is incorrect because "instead" illogically signals that the
    information in this sentence presents an alternative to the previous claim about
    ANLA's impressive audio collection. Rather, the information about the large
    number of recordings emphasizes and supports that claim.

29  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 28

    Choice A is the best answer. "Currently" logically signals that the archaeologists'
    use of drones (a current technology) to photograph the lines is the present-day
    continuation of the ongoing archaeological research described in the previous
    sentence.

    Choice B is incorrect because "in comparison" illogically signals that the action
    described in this sentence offers a comparison to the ongoing archaeological
    research described in the previous sentence. Instead, the use of drones is the
    present-day continuation of that research. Choice C is incorrect because "still"
    illogically signals that the action described in this sentence occurs despite the
    ongoing archaeological research described in the previous sentence. Instead, the
    use of drones is the present-day continuation of that research. Choice D is
    incorrect because "however" illogically signals that the action described in this
    sentence occurs either despite or in contrast to the ongoing archaeological
    research described in the previous sentence. Instead, the use of drones is the
    present-day continuation of that research.

    QUESTION 29

    Choice C is the best answer. "By contrast" logically signals that the information in
    this sentence--that dogs can see, hear, and smell by the end of two weeks--
    contrasts with the preceding information (that wolves can smell but not see or
    hear at the same age).

    Choice A is incorrect because "in other words" illogically signals that the
    information about domesticated dogs in this sentence paraphrases the
    information about wolves in the previous sentence. Instead, the information about
    dogs contrasts with what came before. Choice B is incorrect because "for
    instance" illogically signals that the information about domesticated dogs in this
    sentence exemplifies the information about wolves in the previous sentence.
    Instead, the information about dogs contrasts with what came before. Choice D is
    incorrect because "accordingly" illogically signals that the information about
    domesticated dogs in this sentence is in accordance with, or results from, the
    information about wolves in the previous sentence. Instead, the information about
    dogs contrasts with what came before.

    QUESTION 30

    Choice B is the best answer. "On the contrary" logically signals that the
    information in this sentence--that Dies Irae's appearance of depth is merely an
    illusion--contrasts with the previous statement about a viewer's possible
    assumption regarding the street painting.

    Choice A is incorrect because "additionally" illogically signals that this sentence is
    simply additional information about a viewer's possible assumption regarding the
    street painting. Instead, the information about how Wenner achieved the illusion
    of depth contrasts with the previous sentence's description of the illusion.
    Choice C is incorrect because "as a result" illogically signals that the information
    in this sentence is a result of, or caused by, a viewer's possible assumption
    regarding the street painting. Instead, the information about how Wenner
    achieved the illusion of depth contrasts with the previous sentence's description

30  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    of the illusion. Choice D is incorrect because "next" illogically signals that the
    information in this sentence is the next step in a process. Instead, the information
    about how Wenner achieved the illusion of depth contrasts with the previous
    sentence's description of the illusion.

    QUESTION 31

    Choice D is the best answer. "As such" correctly signals that the claim in this
    sentence--that Ostrom's work is a repudiation of the "tragedy of the commons"
    view--follows logically from the information about Ostrom's studies in the
    previous sentence. According to that sentence, Ostrom's studies demonstrate
    that common pool resources can in fact be sustainably managed by the people
    who use them.

    Choice A is incorrect because "by contrast" illogically signals that the information
    in this sentence contrasts with the information about Ostrom's studies in the
    previous sentence. Instead, the claim that Ostrom's work repudiates the "tragedy
    of the commons" view follows logically from that information. Choice B is
    incorrect because "for example" illogically signals that the claim in this sentence
    exemplifies the information about Ostrom's studies in the previous sentence.
    Instead, the claim that Ostrom's work repudiates the "tragedy of the commons"
    view follows logically from that information. Choice C is incorrect because "that
    said" illogically signals that the information in this sentence is an exception or
    caveat to the information about Ostrom's studies in the previous sentence.
    Instead, the claim that Ostrom's work repudiates the "tragedy of the commons"
    view follows logically from that information.

    QUESTION 32

    Choice B is the best answer. The sentence effectively explains an advantage of
    infilling: it's less invasive than using a power grinder.

    Choice A is incorrect. The sentence identifies a disadvantage of power grinding; it
    doesn't explain an advantage of infilling. Choice C is incorrect. The sentence
    identifies the two techniques park rangers use; it doesn't explain an advantage of
    infilling. Choice D is incorrect. The sentence indicates that power grinding and
    infilling are different in one aspect; it fails to explain an advantage of infilling.

    QUESTION 33

    Choice D is the best answer. The sentence emphasizes the role a misconception
    played in the naming of a place, explaining that Spanish explorers mistook a
    peninsula for an island and, as a result, named the peninsula after a fictional
    island, California.

    Choice A is incorrect. The sentence mentions a novel that featured a fictional

    island, California; it doesn't emphasize the role a misconception played in the

    naming of a place. Choice B is incorrect. The sentence notes that Baja California

    was originally named after a fictional place; it doesn't emphasize the role a

    misconception--specifically, the Spanish explorers' mistaken belief that the

    peninsula was an island--played in the naming of a place. Choice C is incorrect.

    The sentence indicates when Spanish explorers learned of the peninsula they

    called California; it doesn't emphasize the role a misconception played in the

    naming of a place.

31  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    Math

    Module 1

    (27 questions)

    QUESTION 1

    Choice C is correct. It's given that t represents the number of seconds after the
    bus passes the marker. Substituting 2 for t in the given equation d = 30t yields
    d = 30^2h, or d = 60. Therefore, the bus will be 60 feet from the marker 2 seconds
    after passing it.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the distance, in feet, the bus will be from the marker
    1 second, not 2 seconds, after passing it. Choice B is incorrect and may result
    from conceptual or calculation errors. Choice D is incorrect. This is the distance,
    in feet, the bus will be from the marker 3 seconds, not 2 seconds, after passing it.

    QUESTION 2

    Choice C is correct. It's given that 29 out of every 100 beads that the machine

    produces have a defect. It follows that if the machine produces k beads, then the

    number  of  beads   that  have  a  defect  is   29   k  ,  for  some  constant          k.  If  a  bead
                                                    100

    produced by the machine will be selected at random, the probability of selecting a

    bead  that  has  a  defect  is  given  by  the  number     of   beads    with   a  defect,         29   k  ,
                                                                                                       100

    divided by the number of beads produced by the machine, k. Therefore, the

                                                                    29    k

    probability of selecting a bead that has a defect is            100      ,  or  29   .
                                                                      k             100

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or computational errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or computational errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or computational errors.

    QUESTION 3

    Choice D is correct. The y-intercept of a graph in the xy-plane is the point at
    which the graph crosses the y-axis. The graph shown crosses the y-axis at the
    point ^0, 8h. Therefore, the y-intercept of the graph shown is ^0, 8h.

32  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 4

    Choice D is correct. The given expression is equivalent
    to ^2x2 + x +^-9hh+^x2 + 6x + 1h, which can be rewritten as
    ^2x2 + x2h+^x + 6xh+^-9 + 1h. Adding like terms in this expression yields
    3x2 + 7x +^-8h, or 3x2 + 7x - 8.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 5

    Choice A is correct. It's given that the mean price of a carton of grape tomatoes
    in Utah was estimated to be $4.23, with an associated margin of error of $0.08. It
    follows that plausible values for this mean price are between $4.23 - $0.08 and
    $4.23 + $0.08. Therefore, it's plausible that the mean price of a carton of grape
    tomatoes for all locations that sell this product in Utah is between $4.15 and
    $4.31.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 6

    The correct answer is .2. Subtracting 2.6 from each side of the given equation
    yields x = 0.2. Therefore, the value of x that's the solution to the given equation is
    0.2. Note that .2 and 1/5 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer.

    QUESTION 7

    The correct answer is 240. It's given that 80% of the 300 seeds sprouted.

    Therefore, the number of seeds that sprouted can be calculated by multiplying

    the  number  of  seeds  that  were  planted  by  80   ,  which  gives  300b  80   l,  or  240.
                                                     100                         100

    QUESTION 8

    Choice A is correct. For the linear function f , it's given that f^7h= 28. Substituting
    7 for x and 28 for f^xh in the given function yields 28 = 4^7h + b, or 28 = 28 + b.
    Subtracting 28 from each side of this equation yields 0 = b. Therefore, the value
    of b is 0.

    Choice B is incorrect. Substituting 1 for b in the given function yields f^xh= 4x + 1.
    For this function, when the value of x is 7, the value of f^xh is 29, not 28. Choice C
    is incorrect. Substituting 4 for b in the given function yields f^xh= 4x + 4. For this
    function, when the value of x is 7, the value of f^xh is 32, not 28. Choice D is
    incorrect. Substituting 7 for b in the given function yields f^xh= 4x + 7. For this
    function, when the value of x is 7, the value of f^xh is 35, not 28.

33  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 9

    Choice B is correct. It's given that triangle LMN is similar to triangle PQR.
    Corresponding angles of similar triangles are congruent. Since angle M and
    angle Q correspond to each other, they must be congruent. Therefore, if the
    measure of angle M is 53c, then the measure of angle Q is also 53c.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from concluding that angle M and angle Q
    are complementary rather than congruent. Choice C is incorrect and may result
    from concluding that angle M and angle Q are supplementary rather than
    congruent. Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation
    errors.

    QUESTION 10

    Choice B is correct. The equation of a line in the xy-plane can be written in
    slope-intercept form y = mx + b, where m is the slope of the line and ^0, bh is its
    y-intercept. It's given that the line passes through the point ^0, 5h. Therefore, b = 5.
    It's also given that the line is parallel to the graph of y = 7x + 4, which means the
    line has the same slope as the graph of y = 7x + 4. The slope of the graph of
    y = 7x + 4 is 7. Therefore, m = 7. Substituting 7 for m and 5 for b in the equation
    y = mx + b yields y = 7x + 5.

    Choice A is incorrect. The graph of this equation passes through the point ^0, 0h,
    not ^0, 5h, and has a slope of 5, not 7. Choice C is incorrect. The graph of this
    equation passes through the point ^0, 0h, not ^0, 5h. Choice D is incorrect. The
    graph of this equation passes through the point ^0, 7h, not ^0, 5h, and has a slope
    of 5, not 7.

    QUESTION 11

    Choice B is correct. The equation representing a linear model can be written in
    the form y = a + bx, or y = bx + a, where b is the slope of the graph of the model
    and ^0, ah is the y-intercept of the graph of the model. The scatterplot shows that
    as the x-values of the data points increase, the y-values of the data points
    decrease, which means the graph of an appropriate linear model has a negative
    slope. Therefore, b < 0. The scatterplot also shows that the data points are close
    to the y-axis at a positive value of y. Therefore, the y-intercept of the graph of an
    appropriate linear model has a positive y-coordinate, which means a > 0. Of the
    given choices, only choice B, y =-1.9x + 10.1, has a negative value for b, the slope,
    and a positive value for a, the y-coordinate of the y-intercept.

    Choice A is incorrect. The graph of this model has a y-intercept with a negative
    y-coordinate, not a positive y-coordinate. Choice C is incorrect. The graph of this
    model has a positive slope, not a negative slope, and a y-intercept with a negative
    y-coordinate, not a positive y-coordinate. Choice D is incorrect. The graph of this
    model has a positive slope, not a negative slope.

34  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 12

    Choice D is correct. It's given that a model predicts the population of Bergen in
    2005 was 15,000. The model also predicts that each year for the next 5 years,
    the population increased by 4% of the previous year's population. The predicted
    population in one of these years can be found by multiplying the predicted
    population from the previous year by 1.04. Since the predicted population in
    2005 was 15,000, the predicted population 1 year later is 15,000^1.04h. The
    predicted population 2 years later is this value times 1.04, which is
    15,000^1.04h^1.04h, or 15,000^1.04h2. The predicted population 3 years later is
    this value times 1.04, or 15,000^1.04h3. More generally, the predicted population,
    p, x years after 2005 is represented by the equation p = 15,000^1.04hx.

    Choice A is incorrect. Substituting 0 for x in this equation indicates the predicted
    population in 2005 was 0.96 rather than 15,000. Choice B is incorrect.
    Substituting 0 for x in this equation indicates the predicted population in 2005
    was 1.04 rather than 15,000. Choice C is incorrect. This equation indicates the
    predicted population is decreasing, rather than increasing, by 4% each year.

    QUESTION 13

    The correct answer is 25. Subtracting the second equation from the first equation
    in the given system of equations yields ^2a - 2ah+^8b - 4bh= 198 - 98, which is
    equivalent to 0 + 4b = 100, or 4b = 100. Dividing each side of this equation by 4
    yields b = 25.

    QUESTION 14

    The correct answer is 6. Applying the distributive property to the expression
    ry4^15y - 9h yields 15ry5 - 9ry4. Since 90y5 - 54y4 is equivalent to ry4^15y - 9h, it
    follows that 90y5 - 54y4 is also equivalent to 15ry5 - 9ry4. Since these expressions
    are equivalent, it follows that corresponding coefficients are equivalent.
    Therefore, 90 = 15r and -54 =-9r. Solving either of these equations for r will
    yield the value of r. Dividing both sides of 90 = 15r by 15 yields 6 = r. Therefore,
    the value of r is 6.

    QUESTION 15

    Choice C is correct. If a value of x satisfies f^xh= 0, the graph of y = f^xh will
    contain a point ^x, 0h and thus touch the x-axis. Since there are 3 points at which
    this graph touches the x-axis, there are 3 values of x for which f^xh= 0.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 16

    Choice D is correct. It's given that the expression w^w + 9h represents the area, in
    square centimeters, of a rectangular cutting board, where w is the width, in
    centimeters, of the cutting board. The area of a rectangle can be calculated by
    multiplying its length by its width. It follows that the length, in centimeters, of the
    cutting board is represented by the expression ^w + 9h.

35  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    Choice A is incorrect. This expression represents the area, in square centimeters,
    of the cutting board, not its length, in centimeters. Choice B is incorrect. This
    expression represents the width, in centimeters, of the cutting board, not its
    length. Choice C is incorrect. This is the difference between the length, in
    centimeters, and the width, in centimeters, of the cutting board, not its length, in
    centimeters.

    QUESTION 17

    Choice A is correct. To express 4j + 9 in terms of p and k, the given equation

    must be solved for 4j + 9. Since it's given that j is a positive number, 4j + 9 is not

    equal to zero. Therefore, multiplying both sides of the given equation by 4j + 9

    yields the equivalent equation p^4j + 9h= k. Since it's given that p is a positive

    number, p is not equal to zero. Therefore, dividing each side of the equation

    p^4j + 9h= k       by   p  yields   the   equivalent     equation      4j  +  9   =  k  .
                                                                                         p

    Choice      B  is  incorrect.   This  equation      is   equivalent    to  p  =   4j +     9  .  Choice  C   is  incorrect.
                                                                                        k

    This equation is equivalent to p = k - 4j - 9. Choice D is incorrect. This equation is

    equivalent to p = k^4j + 9h.

    QUESTION 18

    Choice D is correct. The area of a circle can be found by using the formula A = rr2,
    where A is the area and r is the radius of the circle. It's given that the radius of
    circle A is 3n. Substituting this value for r into the formula A = rr2 gives
    A = r^3nh2, or 9rn2. It's also given that the radius of circle B is 129n. Substituting
    this value for r into the formula A = rr2 gives A = r^129nh2, or 16,641rn2. Dividing

    the area of circle B by the area of circle A gives 16,641rn2, which simplifies to 1,849.

                                                                                              9rn2

    Therefore, the area of circle B is 1,849 times the area of circle A.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is how many times greater the radius of circle B is than
    the radius of circle A. Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or
    calculation errors. Choice C is incorrect. This is the coefficient on the term that
    describes the radius of circle B.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice      C  is  correct.   It's  given     that  the  measure       of  angle     R     is    2r  radians,    and  the
                                                                                                     3

    measure of angle           T  is  5r  radians greater than the measure of angle                          R. Therefore,
                                      12

    the measure of angle T              is equal to     2r + 5r     radians. Multiplying             2r  by  4   to get a
                                                                                                     3       4
                                                        3 12

    common denominator with                   5r  yields   8r  .  Therefore,   2r     +  5r    is equivalent to        8r  +  5r  ,
                                              12           12                  3         12                            12     12

    or  13r  .  Therefore,     the  measure       of  angle    T  is  13r  radians. The measure of angle T ,
        12                                                            12

    in  degrees,       can  be   found    by  multiplying      its  measure,      in  radians,       by  180  .  This  yields
                                                                                                          r

    13r  #   180   ,  which  is  equivalent       to  195  degrees.   Therefore,            the      measure     of  angle    T
    12        r

    is 195 degrees.

36  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the number of degrees that the measure of angle T
    is greater than the measure of angle R. Choice B is incorrect. This is the measure
    of angle R, in degrees. Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or
    calculation errors.

    QUESTION 20

    The correct answer is 7. When an equation is of the form y = ax2 + bx + c, where a,
    b, and c are constants, the value of y reaches its minimum when x =- 2ba. Since
    the given equation is of the form y = ax2 + bx + c, it follows that a = 1, b =-14, and
    c = 22. Therefore, the value of y reaches its minimum when x =- ^2-^114hh, or x = 7.

    QUESTION 21

    The correct answer is 182. Let s represent the number of small candles the owner
    can purchase, and let , represent the number of large candles the owner can
    purchase. It's given that the owner pays $4.90 per candle to purchase small
    candles and $11.60 per candle to purchase large candles. Therefore, the owner
    pays 4.90s dollars for s small candles and 11.60, dollars for , large candles,
    which means the owner pays a total of 4.90s + 11.60, dollars to purchase
    candles. It's given that the owner budgets $2,200 to purchase candles. Therefore,
    4.90s + 11.60, # 2,200. It's also given that the owner must purchase a minimum
    of 200 candles. Therefore, s + , $ 200. The inequalities 4.90s + 11.60, # 2,200
    and s + , $ 200 can be combined into one compound inequality by rewriting the
    second inequality so that its left-hand side is equivalent to the left-hand side of
    the first inequality. Subtracting , from both sides of the inequality s + , $ 200
    yields s $ 200 - ,. Multiplying both sides of this inequality by 4.90 yields
    4.90s $ 4.90^200 - ,h, or 4.90s $ 980 - 4.90,. Adding 11.60, to both sides
    of this inequality yields 4.90s + 11.60, $ 980 - 4.90, + 11.60,, or
    4.90s + 11.60, $ 980 + 6.70,. This inequality can be combined with the
    inequality 4.90s + 11.60, # 2,200, which yields the compound inequality
    980 + 6.70, # 4.90s + 11.60, # 2,200. It follows that 980 + 6.70, # 2,200.
    Subtracting 980 from both sides of this inequality yields 6.70, # 1,220. Dividing
    both sides of this inequality by 6.70 yields approximately , # 182.09. Since the
    number of large candles the owner purchases must be a whole number, the
    maximum number of large candles the owner can purchase is the largest whole
    number less than 182.09, which is 182.

    QUESTION 22

    Choice D is correct. A point ^x, yh is a solution to a system of inequalities in the
    xy-plane if substituting the x-coordinate and the y-coordinate of the point for x
    and y, respectively, in each inequality makes both of the inequalities true.
    Substituting the x-coordinate and the y-coordinate of choice D, 14 and 0, for x
    and y, respectively, in the first inequality in the given system, y # x + 7, yields
    0 # 14 + 7, or 0 # 21, which is true. Substituting 14 for x and 0 for y in the
    second inequality in the given system, y $-2x - 1, yields 0 $-2^14h - 1, or
    0 $-29, which is true. Therefore, the point ^14, 0h is a solution to the given
    system of inequalities in the xy-plane.

37  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    Choice A is incorrect. Substituting -14 for x and 0 for y in the inequality
    y # x + 7 yields 0 #-14 + 7, or 0 #-7, which is not true. Choice B is incorrect.
    Substituting 0 for x and -14 for y in the inequality y $-2x - 1 yields
    -14 $-2^0h - 1, or -14 $-1, which is not true. Choice C is incorrect. Substituting
    0 for x and 14 for y in the inequality y # x + 7 yields 14 # 0 + 7, or 14 # 7, which
    is not true.

    QUESTION 23

    Choice B is correct. The mean of a data set is the sum of the values in the data set
    divided by the number of values in the data set. The new data set consists of the
    weights of the 71 tortoises in the original data set and one additional weight, 39.
    Since the additional weight, 39, is greater than any of the values in the original
    data set, the mean of the new data set is greater than the mean of the original
    data set. If a data set contains an odd number of data values, the median is
    represented by the middle data value in the list when the data values are listed in
    ascending or descending order. Since the original data set consists of the weights
    of 71 tortoises and is in ascending order, the median of the original data set is
    represented by the middle value, or the 36th value. Based on the frequencies
    shown in the table, the 36th value in this data set is 17. If a data set contains an
    even number of data values, the median is between the two middle data values
    when the values are listed in ascending or descending order. Since the new data
    set consists of the weights of 72 tortoises, the median of the new data set is
    between the 36th and 37th data values when the values are arranged in
    ascending order. To keep the data in ascending order, the additional value of 39
    would be placed at the bottom of the frequency table with a frequency of 1.
    Therefore, based on the frequencies in the table, the 36th and 37th values in the
    new data set are both 17. It follows that the median of the new data set is 17,
    which is the same as the median of the original data set. Therefore, the mean of
    the new data set is greater than the mean of the original data set, and the medians
    of the two data sets are equal.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 24

    Choice C is correct. Subtracting the expression ^x - 29h from both sides of the
    given equation yields 0 =^x - ah^x - 29h-^x - 29h, which can be rewritten as
    0 =^x - ah^x - 29h+^-1h^x - 29h. Since the two terms on the right-hand side
    of this equation have a common factor of ^x - 29h, it can be rewritten as
    0 =^x - 29h^x - a +^-1hh, or 0 =^x - 29h^x - a - 1h. Since x - a - 1 is equivalent
    to x -^a + 1h, the equation 0 =^x - 29h^x - a - 1h can be rewritten as
    0 =^x - 29h^x -^a + 1hh. By the zero product property, it follows that x - 29 = 0 or
    x -^a + 1h= 0. Adding 29 to both sides of the equation x - 29 = 0 yields x = 29.
    Adding a + 1 to both sides of the equation x -^a + 1h= 0 yields x = a + 1. Therefore,
    the two solutions to the given equation are 29 and a + 1. Thus, only a + 1 and 29,
    not a, are solutions to the given equation.

38  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 25

    Choice C is correct. In the xy-plane, the graph of the line y = c is a horizontal line

    that crosses the y-axis at y = c and the graph of the quadratic equation
    y =-x2 + 9x - 100 is a parabola. A parabola can intersect a horizontal line at

    exactly one point only at its vertex. Therefore, the value of c should be equal to

    the y-coordinate of the vertex of the graph of the given equation. For a quadratic

    equation in vertex form, y = a^x - hh2 + k, the vertex of its graph in the xy-plane is

    ^h, kh. The given quadratic equation, y =-x2 + 9x - 100, can be rewritten as

    y  =  -  d  x  2  -  2     9     x  +b  9   2  n  +     9   2  -  100,  or  y  =  -b  x  -  9   2  +  b-  319  l.  Thus,  the  value  of  c  is
                               2            2               2                                   2              4
                            b     l            l         b     l                                   l

    equal to - 3419.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 26

    Choice B is correct. For the function f , since the base of the exponent, 1.25, is
    greater than 1, the value of ^1.25hx increases as x increases. Therefore, the value
    of 18^1.25hx and the value of 18^1.25hx + 41 also increase as x increases. Since f
    is therefore an increasing function where x $ 0, the function f has no maximum
    value. For the function g, since the base of the exponent, 0.73, is less than 1, the
    value of ^0.73hx decreases as x increases. Therefore, the value of 9^0.73hx also
    decreases as x increases. It follows that the maximum value of g^xh for x $ 0
    occurs when x = 0. Substituting 0 for x in the function g yields g^0h= 9^0.73h0,
    which is equivalent to g^0h= 9^1h, or g^0h= 9. Therefore, the maximum value of
    g^xh for x $ 0 is 9, which appears as a coefficient in equation II. So, of the two
    equations given, only II displays, as a constant or coefficient, the maximum value
    of the function it defines, where x $ 0.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 27

    The correct answer is                             284   .  Since the perimeter of a triangle is the sum of the
                                                       3

    lengths of its sides, and the given triangle is equilateral, the length of each side is

    852   ,  or    284,     centimeters                   (cm).       Right  triangle     AMO          can    be   formed,    where   M   is the
     3

    midpoint of one of the triangle's sides, A is one of this side's endpoints, and O is

    the   center         of    the      circle.       It    follows   that      AM    is     284   ,  or  142,  cm.    Additionally,
                                                                                              2

    triangle AMO has angles measuring 30c, 60c, and 90c, where the measure of

    angle OMA is 90c and the measure of angle OAM is 30c. It follows that the length

39  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    of side MO is half the length of hypotenuse AO, and the length of side AM is

    3 times the length of side MO. It's given that AO = w 3 cm. Therefore,

    MO  =  w    3  cm and AM = w     3     3  cm, which is equivalent to  AM     =   3w  cm. Since
             2                       2                                                2

    AM = 142       cm,  it  follows  that  3w  = 142.  Multiplying  both  sides  of  this  equation  by  2
                                            2

    yields 3w = 284. Dividing both sides of this equation by 3 yields w = 2384. Note that

    284/3, 94.66, and 94.67 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer.

40  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    Math

    Module 2

    (27 questions)

    QUESTION 1

    Choice C is correct. The y-intercept of a graph is the point where the graph
    intersects the y-axis. The line graphed intersects the y-axis at the point ^0, 5h.
    Therefore, the y-intercept of the line graphed is ^0, 5h.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors. Choice B is incorrect
    and may result from conceptual errors. Choice D is incorrect and may result from
    conceptual errors.

    QUESTION 2

    Choice C is correct. The table shows that for a certain region in 2016, the average
    number of store employees in warehouse stores was 365 and the average
    number of store employees in supermarkets was 130. Subtracting 130 from 365
    yields 365 - 130, or 235. Therefore, the average number of store employees was
    235 greater in warehouse stores than in supermarkets.

    Choice A is incorrect. For this region in 2016, this is how much greater the
    average number of store employees was in department stores than in
    supermarkets. Choice B is incorrect. For this region in 2016, this is how much
    greater the average number of store employees was in warehouse stores than in
    department stores. Choice D is incorrect. For this region in 2016, this is the sum
    of the average number of store employees in warehouse stores and in
    supermarkets.

    QUESTION 3

    Choice D is correct. It's given that line m is parallel to line n, and line t intersects
    both lines. It follows that line t is a transversal. When two lines are parallel and
    intersected by a transversal, exterior angles on the same side of the transversal
    are supplementary. Thus, x + 33 = 180. Subtracting 33 from both sides of this
    equation yields x = 147. Therefore, the value of x is 147.

41  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 4

    Choice C is correct. It's given that the cost of renting a tent is $11 per day for
    d days. Multiplying the rental cost by the number of days yields $11d, which
    represents the cost of renting the tent for d days before the insurance is added.
    Adding the onetime insurance fee of $10 to the rental cost of $11d gives the
    total cost c, in dollars, which can be represented by the equation c = 11d + 10.

    Choice A is incorrect. This equation represents the total cost to rent the tent if the
    insurance fee was charged every day. Choice B is incorrect. This equation
    represents the total cost to rent the tent if the daily fee was $^d + 11h for 10 days.
    Choice D is incorrect. This equation represents the total cost to rent the tent if the
    daily fee was $10 and the onetime fee was $11.

    QUESTION 5

    Choice D is correct. By the Pythagorean theorem, if a right triangle has a
    hypotenuse with length c and legs with lengths a and b, then c2 = a2 + b2. In the
    right triangle shown, the hypotenuse has length c and the legs have lengths a
    and b. It's given that a = 4 and b = 5. Substituting 4 for a and 5 for b in the
    Pythagorean theorem yields c2 = 42 + 52. Taking the square root of both sides of
    this equation yields c =! 42 + 52. Since the length of a side of a triangle must be
    positive, the value of c is 42 + 52.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 6

    The correct answer is 9. It's given that g^xh= 6x. Substituting 54 for g^xh in the
    given function yields 54 = 6x. Dividing both sides of this equation by 6 yields x = 9.
    Therefore, the value of x when g^xh= 54 is 9.

    QUESTION 7

    The correct answer is 68. It's given that the function f is defined by f^xh= 8x3 + 4.
    Substituting 2 for x in this equation yields f^2h= 8^2h3 + 4, or f^2h= 8^8h + 4, which
    is equivalent to f^2h= 68. Therefore, the value of f^2h is 68.

    QUESTION 8

    Choice B is correct. The y-intercept of the graph of a function in the xy-plane is

    the  point   on  the  graph  where  x = 0.  Its   given   that  f  ^xh=  1   x  -  2.  Substituting  0  for
                                                                             10

    x  in  this  equation  yields  f  ^0h=  1   ^0h-  2,  or  f^0h=-2.  Since    its   given  that  y = f^xh,  it
                                            10

    follows that y =-2 when x = 0. Therefore, the y-intercept of the graph of y = f^xh in

    the xy-plane is ^0, - 2h.

42  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 9

    Choice D is correct. Since x represents the number of 1-minute segments and y
    represents the number of 3-minute segments, the total length of the video is
    1$ x + 3$y, or x + 3y, minutes. Since the video is 70 minutes long, the equation
    x + 3y = 70 represents this situation.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors. Choice B is incorrect
    and may result from conceptual errors. Choice C is incorrect and may result from
    conceptual errors.

    QUESTION 10

    Choice D is correct. If the graph of y = g^xh is the result of shifting the graph of
    y = f^xh down k units in the xy-plane, the function g can be defined by an
    equation of the form g^xh= f^xh - k. It's given that f^xh= 7x3 and the graph of
    y = g^xh is the result of shifting the graph of y = f^xh down 2 units. Substituting
    7x3 for f^xh and 2 for k in the equation g^xh= f^xh - k yields g^xh= 7x3 - 2.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors. Choice B is incorrect
    and may result from conceptual errors. Choice C is incorrect. This equation
    defines a function g for which the graph of y = g^xh is the result of shifting the
    graph of y = f^xh up, not down, 2 units.

    QUESTION 11

    Choice C is correct. The given system of linear equations can be solved by the
    substitution method. Substituting -3x for y from the first equation in the given
    system into the second equation yields 4x +^-3xh= 15, or x = 15.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect. This is the absolute value of y, not the value of x.

    QUESTION 12

    Choice B is correct. The sine of an acute angle in a right triangle is the ratio of the

    length of the side opposite that angle to the length of the hypotenuse. The

    hypotenuse of a right triangle is the side opposite the right angle. In right

    triangle ABC, side BC is the side opposite angle A and side AB is the

    hypotenuse. It's given that the length of side BC is 35 units and the length of

    side  AB  is  171 units.  Therefore,  the  value  of  sin A  is  35   .
                                                                     171

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect. This is the ratio of the length of the hypotenuse to the
    length of the side opposite angle A rather than the ratio of the length of the side
    opposite angle A to the length of the hypotenuse. Choice D is incorrect. This is
    the length of the hypotenuse rather than sin A.

43  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 13

    The correct answer is 986. The area, A, of a rectangle is given by A = ,w, where ,
    is the length of the rectangle and w is its width. It's given that the length of the
    rectangle is 34 centimeters (cm) and the width is 29 cm. Substituting 34 for ,
    and 29 for w in the equation A = ,w yields A =^34h^29h, or A = 986. Therefore, the
    area, in square centimeters, of this rectangle is 986.

    QUESTION 14

    The  correct answer    is   24.   The   equation      24x    =  4  can  be  rewritten      as    b  24    x  l=    4.  It's
                                                          ny                                                  y
                                                                                                        n lb

    given that  x  =   4.  Substituting     4   for  x  in the equation      24  lb  x  l=  4  yields     b  24  l`4j=     4.
                y                                    y                               y                       n
                                                                            bn

    Multiplying both sides of this equation by n yields ^24h^4h= 4n. Dividing both

    sides of this equation by 4 yields 24 = n. Therefore, the value of n is 24.

    QUESTION 15

    Choice D is correct. It's given that the bowl starts with 20 ounces of water and

    has 9 ounces of water remaining after a period of time has passed. The amount of

    water the bowl has lost during the time period can be found by subtracting the

    remaining amount of water from the amount of water the bowl starts with, which

    yields 20 - 9 ounces, or 11 ounces. This means the bowl loses 11 ounces of water

    during that period of time. It's given that the amount of water decreases by

    1 ounce every 4 days. Letting t represent the number of days the bowl has been

    uncovered,     it  follows  that  1  =  11  .  Multiplying   both  sides    of   this   equation         by  4t
                                      4      t

    yields t = 44. Therefore, the bowl has been uncovered for 44 days.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    Choice  C  is  incorrect.   This is     the    value  of  t  for  the  equation     1   =  9  ,  not  1  =  1t1 .
                                                                                        4      t          4

    QUESTION 16

    Choice D is correct. The value of 4 - 3x can be found by isolating this expression
    in the given equation. Subtracting 2 from both sides of the given equation yields
    9^4 - 3xh= 8^4 - 3xh+ 16. Subtracting 8^4 - 3xh from both sides of this equation
    yields 9^4 - 3xh- 8^4 - 3xh= 16, which gives 1^4 - 3xh= 16, or 4 - 3x = 16.
    Therefore, the value of 4 - 3x is 16.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect. This is the value of x, not 4 - 3x. Choice C is incorrect and
    may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 17

    Choice A is correct. It's given that a certain township consists of a 5-hectare
    industrial park and a 24-hectare neighborhood and that the total number of trees
    in the township is 4,529. It's also given that the equation 5x + 24y = 4,529
    represents this situation. Since the total number of trees for a given area can be

44  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    determined by taking the size of the area, in hectares, times the average number
    of trees per hectare, the best interpretation of 5x is the number of trees in the
    industrial park and the best interpretation of 24y is the number of trees in the
    neighborhood. Since 5 is the size of the industrial park, in hectares, the best
    interpretation of x is the average number of trees per hectare in the industrial
    park.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors. Choice C is incorrect
    and may result from conceptual errors. Choice D is incorrect and may result from
    conceptual errors.

    QUESTION 18

    Choice  B  is  correct.      Since  12  =  1,  multiplying       the  exponent  of  the  given    expression
                                        12

        12                                             11 12         132       132                1
        12                                                                     144               144
    by      yields an equivalent expression:           a = a . Since c12mc12m              132b       l,  the
                                                                     c144 m             =

    expression         132  can  be  rewritten  as                1  Applying  properties  of  exponents,      this

                   a 144                            a . ^132hc144m

                                                    1                                            1

    expression can be rewritten as ^a h 132 144. An expression of the form ^mhk, where

                                                                                                                                                                                 1

    m > 0 and k > 0, is equivalent to k m. Therefore, a^ h 132 144 is equivalent to 144 a132.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice A is correct. The median of a data set with an odd number of values that
    are in ascending or descending order is the middle value of the data set. Since the
    distribution of the values of both data set A and data set B form symmetric dot
    plots, and each data set has an odd number of values, it follows that the median is
    given by the middle value in each of the dot plots. Thus, the median of data set A
    is 13, and the median of data set B is 13. Therefore, statement I is true. Data set A
    and data set B have the same frequency for each of the values 11, 12, 14, and 15.
    Data set A has a frequency of 1 for values 10 and 16, whereas data set B has a
    frequency of 2 for values 10 and 16. Standard deviation is a measure of the
    spread of a data set; it is larger when there are more values farther from the mean,
    and smaller when there are more values closer to the mean. Since both
    distributions are symmetric with an odd number of values, the mean of each data
    set is equal to its median. Thus, each data set has a mean of 13. Since more of the
    values in data set A are closer to 13 than in data set B, it follows that data set A
    has a smaller standard deviation than data set B. Thus, statement II is false.
    Therefore, only statement I must be true.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

45  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 20

    The correct answer is 46. It's given that O is the center of a circle and that points
    R and S lie on the circle. Therefore, OR and OS are radii of the circle. It follows
    that OR = OS. If two sides of a triangle are congruent, then the angles opposite
    them are congruent. It follows that the angles +RSO and +ORS, which are
    across from the sides of equal length, are congruent. Let xc represent the
    measure of +RSO. It follows that the measure of +ORS is also xc. It's given that
    the measure of +ROS is 88c. Because the sum of the measures of the interior
    angles of a triangle is 180c, the equation xc+ xc+ 88c = 180c, or 2x + 88 = 180, can
    be used to find the measure of +RSO. Subtracting 88 from both sides of this
    equation yields 2x = 92. Dividing both sides of this equation by 2 yields x = 46.
    Therefore, the measure of +RSO, in degrees, is 46.

    QUESTION 21

    The correct answer is 1.8. It's given that the regular price of a shirt at a store is

    $11.70, and the sale price of the shirt is 80% less than the regular price. It follows

    that  the  sale  price  of  the  shirt   is  $11.70b1 -       80    l,  or  $11.70^1 - 0.8h,  which        is
                                                                  100

    equivalent to $2.34. It's also given that the sale price of the shirt is 30% greater

    than the store's cost for the shirt. Let x represent the store's cost for the shirt. It

    follows  that  2.34   =b1 +  30   lx  ,  or  2.34  =  1.3x .  Dividing      both   sides  of  this  equation
                                 100

    by 1.3 yields x = 1.80. Therefore, the store's cost, in dollars, for the shirt is 1.80.

    Note that 1.8 and 9/5 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer.

    QUESTION 22

    Choice A is correct. The volume of a cube can be found by using the formula

    V = s3, where V is the volume and s is the edge length of the cube. Therefore, the

    volume of the given cube is V = 683, or 314,432 cubic inches. The volume of a

    sphere   can   be  found    by  using    the  formula  V      =  4  rr  3,  where  V  is the volume and        r  is
                                                                     3

    the  radius  of  the  sphere.    Therefore,   the     volume        of  the  given    sphere  is  V  =  4  r  ^34h3,
                                                                                                            3

    or approximately 164,636 cubic inches. The volume of the space in the cube not

    taken up by the sphere is the difference between the volume of the cube and

    volume of the sphere. Subtracting the approximate volume of the sphere from the

    volume of the cube gives 314,432 - 164,636 = 149,796 cubic inches.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 23

    Choice B is correct. A system of two linear equations in two variables, x and y,
    has no solution if the lines represented by the equations in the xy-plane are
    parallel and distinct. Lines represented by equations in standard form, Ax + By = C
    and Dx + Ey = F , are parallel if the coefficients for x and y in one equation are
    proportional to the corresponding coefficients in the other equation, meaning

46  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    D  =  E  ;  and  the  lines        are  distinct      if  the    constants    are  not       proportional,             meaning    F   is
    A     B                                                                                                                           C

    not   equal  to  D    or     E  .  The      given     equation,       y = 6x + 18,    can    be   written          in  standard
                     A           B

    form by subtracting 6x from both sides of the equation to yield -6x + y = 18.

    Therefore, the given equation can be written in the form Ax + By = C, where A =-6,

    B = 1, and C = 18. The equation in choice B, -6x + y = 22, is written in the form

    Dx + Ey = F ,    where          D =-6,      E = 1,    and        F = 22.  Therefore,     D   =   -6  ,  which      can  be
                                                                                             A       -6

    rewritten    as  D    =  1;  E     =  11 ,  which  can       be  rewritten    as   E  =  1;  and     F   =  22  ,  which  can     be
                     A           B                                                     B                 C      18

    rewritten    as  F    =  11  .  Since       D  =  1,  E   =  1,  and  F   is  not  equal     to  1,  it  follows       that  the
                     C       9                  A         B               C

    given equation and the equation -6x + y = 22 are parallel and distinct. Therefore, a

    system of two linear equations consisting of the given equation and the equation

    -6x + y = 22 has no solution. Thus, the equation in choice B could be the second

    equation in the system.

    Choice A is incorrect. The equation -6x + y = 18 and the given equation represent
    the same line in the xy-plane. Therefore, a system of these linear equations would
    have infinitely many solutions, rather than no solution. Choice C is incorrect. The
    equation -12x + y = 36 and the given equation represent lines in the xy-plane that
    are distinct and not parallel. Therefore, a system of these linear equations would
    have exactly one solution, rather than no solution. Choice D is incorrect. The
    equation -12x + y = 18 and the given equation represent lines in the xy-plane that
    are distinct and not parallel. Therefore, a system of these linear equations would
    have exactly one solution, rather than no solution.

    QUESTION 24

    Choice C is correct. Since P =^4, 5h and Q =^4, 7h, side PQ is parallel to the y-axis
    and has a length of 2. Since P =^4, 5h and R =^6, 5h, side PR is parallel to the x-axis
    and has a length of 2. Therefore, triangle PQR is a right isosceles triangle, where
    +P has measure 90cand +Q and +R each have measure 45c. It follows that if
    the measure of +Q is tc, then t = 45. Since L =^4, 5h and M =^4, 7 + kh, side LM is
    parallel to the y-axis and has a length of k + 2. Since L =^4, 5h and N =^6 + k, 5h,
    side LN is parallel to the x-axis and has a length of k + 2. Therefore, triangle LMN
    is a right isosceles triangle, where +L has measure 90cand +M and +N each
    have measure 45c. Of the given choices, only ^90 - thc is equal to 45c, so the
    measure of +N is ^90 - thc.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 25

    Choice B is correct. The two given equations are equivalent because the second
    equation can be obtained from the first equation by multiplying each side of the
    equation by 5. Thus, the graphs of the equations are coincident, so if a point lies
    on the graph of one of the equations, it also lies on the graph of the other
    equation. A point ^x, yh lies on the graph of an equation in the xy-plane if and only

47  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    if this point represents a solution to the equation. It is sufficient, therefore, to find

    the point that represents a solution to the first given equation. Substituting the

    x-  and    y-coordinates             of  choice          B,  - 3r    +  7  and  r,  for  x  and   y,      respectively,     in  the
                                                                            2
                                                                    2

    first  equation           yields     2b-     3r  +   7   +  3r   =  7,  which   is  equivalent        to  -3r  +  7  +  3r  =  7,  or
                                                 2
                                                         2l

    7  =  7.   Therefore,           the  point       `-  3r  +   7,  rj  represents     a  solution       to  the  first    equation
                                                         2
                                                                 2

    and thus lies on the graph of each equation in the xy-plane for the given system.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 26

    Choice D is correct. If x2 - c2 # 0, then neither side of the given equation is

    defined and there can be no solution. Therefore, x2 - c2 > 0. Subtracting c2

                                                                                                                                         x2-c2

    from both sides of the given equation yields x2 - c2 = 39, or x2-c2 = 39.
                                                                                    x2-c2         x2-c2                  x2-c2

    Squaring both sides of this equation yields                                e  x2-c2     2  =  39  2,  or  ^x2-c2h^x2-c2h = 392.
                                                                                   x2-c2
                                                                                           o                        x2-c2

    Since x2 - c2 is positive and, therefore, nonzero, the expression x2-c2 is defined

                                                                                                                        x2-c2

    and equivalent to 1. It follows that the equation ^x2-c2h^x2-c2h = 392 can be rewritten

                                                                                                x2-c2

    as     x2  -  c2  o`x  2  -  c  2j=  39  2,  or  ^1h^x2 - c2h= 392, which              is  equivalent to       x2 - c2 = 392.
           x2  -  c2
        e

    Adding c2 to both sides of this equation yields x2 = c2 + 392. Taking the square

    root of both sides of this equation yields two solutions: x = c2 + 392 and

    x =- c2 + 392. Therefore, of the given choices, - c2 + 392 is one of the solutions

    to the given equation.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 27

    The correct answer is 168. The quadratic function g gives the estimated depth of
    the seal, g^th, in meters, t minutes after the seal enters the water. It's given that
    function g estimates that the seal reached its maximum depth of 302.4 meters
    6 minutes after it entered the water. Therefore, function g can be expressed in
    vertex form as g^th= a^t - 6h2 + 302.4, where a is a constant. Since it's also given
    that the seal reached the surface of the water after 12 minutes, g^12h= 0.
    Substituting 12 for t and 0 for g^th in g^th= a^t - 6h2 + 302.4 yields
    0 = a^12 - 6h2 + 302.4, or 36a =-302.4. Dividing both sides of this equation by 36
    gives a =-8.4. Substituting -8.4 for a in g^th= a^t - 6h2 + 302.4 gives
    g^th=-8.4^t - 6h2 + 302.4. Substituting 10 for t in g^th gives
    g^10h=-8.4^10 - 6h2 + 302.4, which is equivalent to g^10h=-8.4^4h2 + 302.4, or
    g^10h= 168. Therefore, the estimated depth, to the nearest meter, of the seal
    10 minutes after it entered the water was 168 meters.

48  SAT PRACTICE TEST #8 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
