The SAT®

Practice
Test #7

ANSWER EXPLANATIONS

      These answer explanations are for students taking the
      digital SAT in nondigital format.

 © 2025 College Board. College Board, SAT, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks of College Board.
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   Reading and Writing

   Module 1

   (33 questions)

   QUESTION 1

   Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of a prediction about a kilonova. In this context, a "theory" is an
   explanation that is considered scientifically acceptable. The text states that
   astronomers predicted in the 1990s that a collision between a black hole and a
   neutron star or between two neutron stars could release a massive gamma ray
   burst called a kilonova, explaining that they determined this possibility based on
   their extensive work with existing data and simulations ("calculations and
   models"). In other words, the prediction was a theory--a well-supported
   explanation--that, as the text indicates, was later confirmed with observations in
   2017.

   Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates that it is the prediction made by
   astronomers in the 1990s that was confirmed in 2017, and a prediction of an
   event isn't "evidence," or proof, of that event's existence, even when the
   prediction is based on extensive study. Further, there would be no need for later
   confirmation of something that was already recognized as evidence. Choice C is
   incorrect because in this context, a "constant" is a situation or factor that doesn't
   change. The text indicates that it is the prediction made by astronomers in the
   1990s that was confirmed in 2017, and there is no reason to describe the
   prediction as a constant because the text doesn't suggest that the prediction was
   completely unchanged over time--it addresses only the making of the prediction
   and its later confirmation. Choice D is incorrect because the text indicates that it
   is the prediction made by astronomers in the 1990s that was confirmed in 2017;
   although a prediction might be informed by an "experiment," or a controlled test, a
   prediction is an idea rather than a test.

2  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   QUESTION 2

   Choice D is the best answer because as used in the text, "clear" most nearly
   means transparent, or see-through. Muir states that the water beneath the boat
   "was so clear that it was almost invisible," suggesting that those on the boat were
   able to see through the water and easily observe plants and fish below the
   surface.

   Choice A is incorrect. In some contexts "clear" can mean "simple," or
   uncomplicated, but Muir is describing the water, and water isn't typically
   described as either simple or complicated. Muir emphasizes the water's
   transparency, not its simplicity. Choice B is incorrect. In some contexts "clear" can
   mean "understandable," or reasonable or easily comprehended, but Muir is
   describing the water, and it doesn't make much sense to describe water as
   understandable. Muir emphasizes the water's transparency, not how easily the
   water can be understood. Choice C is incorrect. Although "clear" can mean
   "obvious," or easily seen or understood, in some contexts, Muir's description
   emphasizes that the water "was almost invisible" and that the boat seemed to be
   "sustained in the air," suggesting that the water was almost impossible to see, not
   that it was obvious.

   QUESTION 3

   Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of how Maggie Lena Walker addressed the lack of financial services
   available to Black residents in Richmond, Virginia, at the turn of the twentieth
   century. In this context, "rectify" means to correct or remedy something
   undesirable. The text indicates that by chartering the St. Luke Penny Savings Bank
   in 1903, Walker took action to provide local Black residents with greater access to
   financial services like home loans and savings opportunities. This context
   supports the idea that she aimed to rectify the undesirable situation affecting
   these residents.

   Choice A is incorrect because in this context, "prolong" would mean to lengthen
   something in time. The text indicates that at the turn of the twentieth century,
   Black residents in Richmond, Virginia, were faced with a lack of formal banking
   options. The text then states that Walker founded a new bank that provided these
   residents with financial services. Therefore, instead of prolonging the situation,
   she took steps to rectify, or correct, it. Choice C is incorrect because in this
   context, "retain" would mean to continue to have or to keep something. According
   to the text, at the turn of the twentieth century, Black residents in Richmond,
   Virginia, had few formal banking options, and Walker chartered a new institution to
   provide these residents with expanded financial services; therefore, she took
   steps to rectify, not retain, the situation. Choice D is incorrect because in this
   context, "highlight" would mean to emphasize or call attention to something, but
   the text indicates that Walker took concrete steps beyond merely drawing
   attention to the situation Black residents were facing in Richmond, Virginia, at the
   turn of the twentieth century. According to the text, Walker worked to rectify, or
   correct, the lack of formal banking options that were available to these residents
   by establishing a bank that provided them with home loans and savings
   opportunities.

3  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   QUESTION 4

   Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of a relationship between the results of randomized clinical tests of
   how effective common medical interventions are and the conclusions
   practitioners reach about such interventions in real-world settings. In this context,
   "corroborate" means confirm or support with evidence. The text indicates that
   one possible explanation for the relationship being discussed is that practitioners
   may overlook confounding variables--that is, additional factors other than the
   medical interventions being investigated that affect the observed outcomes. This
   means that practitioners may assume that an outcome is the direct result of a
   medical intervention when it is actually the result of a combination of factors.
   Clinical trials take steps to rule out factors other than the one being studied, so if
   those extra factors are actually having an effect on real-world outcomes, the trials
   are likely to produce conclusions different from those practitioners reach in their
   real-world observations. In other words, clinical trials may fail to corroborate
   practitioners' conclusions.

   Choice A is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense to say that the results of
   clinical trials could "circumvent," or find a way around or bypass, conclusions
   practitioners reach in real-world scenarios with patients; it's possible that
   researchers conducting the trials might avoid engaging with practitioners'
   conclusions, but findings from a study can't choose to get around something.
   Choice C is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense to say that the results of
   clinical trials could "disseminate," or spread widely, conclusions practitioners
   reach in real-world scenarios with patients; the researchers conducting the trials
   might choose to draw attention to practitioners' conclusions, but findings from a
   study can't spread anything. Choice D is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense
   to say that the results of clinical trials could "implement," or put into effect,
   conclusions practitioners reach in real-world scenarios with patients; the
   researchers conducting the trials might consider practitioners' conclusions, but
   findings from a study can't put anything into effect.

   QUESTION 5

   Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of diadromous fish. In this context, "demarcated from" means separate
   or set apart from. The text indicates that diadromous fish differ from euryhaline
   fish in that diadromous fish "migrate between freshwater and marine biomes
   during their life," whereas euryhaline fish do not relocate to a different biome
   because they can tolerate higher salinity environments. Therefore, this context
   suggests that because of differences between their migration patterns,
   diadromous fish are distinct and can be demarcated from euryhaline fish.

   Choice B is incorrect. Although the text states that diadromous fish migrate and
   relocate, the text does not suggest that diadromous fish would be "reconstituted
   as," or formed again as, anything new. Only their environments change and not
   the fish themselves. Choice C is incorrect because the text does not suggest that
   diadromous fish can be "conflated with," or combined with, euryhaline fish.
   Instead, the text distinguishes the two types of fish by pointing out their

4  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   differences with regard to migration and tolerance for salinity. Choice D is
   incorrect because the text indicates that based on migration habits and tolerance
   for salinity, diadromous fish are different from euryhaline fish; so it would not
   make logical sense to say that diadromous fish would be "derived from," or be an
   extension of or result from, euryhaline fish.

   QUESTION 6

   Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately describes how the
   underlined portion functions in the text as a whole. The first two sentences of the
   text establish that in California, houses were heated by building fires year-round.
   The underlined portion then indicates that the fires didn't merely provide physical
   warmth: they also represented being "home" and feeling protected. The
   underlined portion thus illustrates that a fire provides comfort beyond physical
   warmth.

   Choice B is incorrect because the underlined portion doesn't summarize
   information that came before it. Whereas the previous two sentences describe
   fires' ability to provide physical warmth to homes, the underlined portion focuses
   on the psychological comfort the fires offered. Choice C is incorrect. Although the
   text's second sentence mentions that fires were built in the summer because fog
   came in, which may have cooled the house, this detail isn't the focus of the
   underlined portion. Instead, the underlined portion indicates that fires were built
   for reasons beyond physical warmth: to create a sense of being home and safe.
   Choice D is incorrect because the underlined portion focuses on the emotional
   significance the author places on having a fire going inside the home. There is no
   indication that the author feels equally comfortable without a fire present.

   QUESTION 7

   Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately describes how the
   underlined phrase functions in the text as a whole. The text states that the wax
   produced by Liu and colleagues' reactor can be turned into a surfactant. The
   underlined phrase, which is set off with parentheses, then provides a definition for
   the term "surfactant," explaining that it's a chemical compound that can be used
   as a detergent. Thus, the underlined portion of the text functions to clarify the
   meaning of a scientific term.

   Choice B is incorrect. Though the text as a whole focuses broadly on an
   environmental concern, the underlined phrase does not; it simply indicates what a
   surfactant is. Choice C is incorrect. Though the text as a whole focuses on a
   scientific discovery (Liu and colleagues' solution to the problem of plastic
   recycling), the underlined phrase does not explain its significance; it simply
   defines a scientific term used in the discussion. Choice D is incorrect. Though the
   text as a whole includes discussion of the result found by Liu and colleagues, the
   underlined phrase does not discuss it; it simply defines a scientific term used in
   the discussion. Additionally, at no point in the text is it mentioned that the team
   was confused.

5  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   QUESTION 8

   Choice C is the best answer because it best describes the function of the
   underlined portion in the text as a whole. In the text, the speaker mentions the
   occurrence in nature of seedpods being shaken by a slight wind. The speaker
   then goes on to compare the black seeds to thoughts, using language that
   indicates that the speaker's state of mind is unsettled (e.g., "my thoughts are
   spent"; "My thoughts tear me, I dread their fever"). The text concludes with a
   comparison between the speaker's "scattered" state of mind and the "hot
   shrivelled seeds." Thus, the underlined portion of the text presents an
   observation of an occurrence in the natural world that the speaker then expands
   on to convey a sense of a turbulent interior state.

   Choice A is incorrect because the text does not indicate that the seedpods are
   the cause of the speaker's state of mind; thus, they could not be responsible for
   any misgivings the speaker has. Choice B is incorrect because the text does not
   contrast the natural landscape with the speaker's state of mind or describe the
   wind shaking the seedpods as consistent; rather, the text suggests that the state
   of the natural world and the speaker's state of mind are similar in that both are
   unsettled. Choice D is incorrect because there is no indication in the text that the
   speaker regularly engages in critical self-evaluation, only that in this particular
   instance the speaker's state of mind is turbulent.

   QUESTION 9

   Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately describes how the
   underlined portion functions in the text as a whole. The first sentence of the text
   introduces literary scholar Jeremy Douglass's warning to technology investors
   and enthusiasts against predicting the displacement of conventional books by
   newer media forms. The next sentence, which is underlined in part, presents
   Douglass's observation that interactive texts are hardly new; they have been
   available for longer than technologists assume, beginning with the first time
   readers wrote notes in texts' margins. Thus, the function of the underlined portion
   is to challenge the stance of the technology investors and enthusiasts mentioned
   earlier in the text. As the remainder of the text points out, newer media doesn't
   necessarily replace older media, but rather, as Douglass believes, leads to new
   forms of expression.

   Choice B is incorrect because the underlined portion challenges the position
   taken by investors and enthusiasts; it doesn't provide context for their claims.
   Choice C is incorrect because the underlined portion doesn't mention academics
   or compare them to investors regarding their ability to see potential in using
   contemporary interactive texts; instead, the underlined portion challenges the
   position of investors and enthusiasts who predict that conventional books will be
   replaced by newer forms of media. Choice D is incorrect because the underlined
   portion doesn't address technological challenges; instead, it disputes the stance
   taken by investors and enthusiasts, suggesting that conventional books haven't
   been displaced by traditional interactions with texts, such as writing in the
   margins, and won't be supplanted by newer forms of media either.

6  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   QUESTION 10

   Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
   discussion of the M. robustus population at the Octopus Garden. The text states
   that the scientists concluded that the site is likely used only for reproduction
   because over three years they saw many adults, freshly hatched octopuses, and
   eggs but didn't see any juveniles. This suggests that the M. robustus octopuses
   that hatch at the Octopus Garden leave the site when they reach an intermediary
   state of development, returning only as adults for reproductive purposes.

   Choice B is incorrect because the text never discusses the stability of the
   M. robustus population at the site, only that the scientists observed 6,000 adults,
   hatchlings, and eggs there. Further, the text presents the site's temperatures as
   likely beneficial. Choice C is incorrect because the text doesn't provide any details
   about the eggs at the site and makes no mention of nests; it indicates only that
   eggs are present along with hatchlings and adults. Choice D is incorrect because
   the text makes no mention of the hatchlings feeding at the Octopus Garden,
   indicating only that the temperatures at the site are probably beneficial and that
   the site is likely used for reproduction.

   QUESTION 11

   Choice D is the best answer because it presents a statement about Hans
   Castorp's story that is suggested by the text. The narrator of the text indicates
   that the story about Hans Castorp will be told not because there is something
   particularly notable about him, since he is pleasant but "perfectly ordinary," but
   because the story itself is remarkable ("very much worth telling"). The narrator
   then notes that there is a benefit in being at the heart of the story--that it is "in
   Hans Castorp's favor" that the story is his, and maybe uniquely so ("not every
   story happens to everybody"). Thus, the text suggests both that the story that will
   be told is a remarkable one that happened to an unremarkable person and that it
   is reasonable to argue that the person at the center of a valuable story takes on
   some of the story's value.

   Choice A is incorrect. Although the narrator of the text makes the point that "not
   every story happens to everybody," the narrator doesn't state that stories are
   interesting simply because the people they are about are unique. Rather, the
   narrator suggests that one particular story is "very much worth telling" on its own
   and that Hans Castorp benefits from the fact that the story is remarkable and may
   be unique to him. Further, the narrator never suggests that the story will be hard
   to understand even though it is old. Choice B is incorrect. Although the narrator of
   the text suggests that Hans Castorp is of no particular importance, since he is a
   "perfectly ordinary" person, the narrator never reveals what makes the story of
   Castorp important, just that "the story itself" is "very much worth telling." The
   narrator states that the story "took place long ago," is "covered with the patina of
   history," and can be told only "with verbs whose tense is that of the deepest past,"
   but the story's age and the way it must be told aren't presented as reasons the
   story is important; the narrator is simply providing details about how the story will
   be told. Choice C is incorrect because the narrator of the text doesn't suggest
   that all stories about people who are "perfectly ordinary" (like Hans Castorp) must

7  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   be told in particular ways to make it clear why those stories are consequential.
   Further, the narrator suggests that Hans Castorp's story must be told "with verbs
   whose tense is that of the deepest past" because it took place so long ago, not
   because telling it that way will convey the story's importance.

   QUESTION 12

   Choice D is the best answer because it states the percentage of participants who
   mentioned costs in the interviews conducted by Judith Hilton and her team. The
   text states that Hilton and her team interviewed participants about factors that
   would encourage them to switch from single-use plastic containers to reusable
   containers. The graph presents three factors mentioned in the interviews
   (convenience, costs, and established behaviors) and the percentage of
   participants who mentioned each one. The graph shows that about 50% of
   participants mentioned costs as a factor.

   Choice A is incorrect because the graph shows that about 50% of participants,
   not 10%, mentioned costs as a factor. Choice B is incorrect because the graph
   shows that about 50% of participants, not 95%, mentioned costs as a factor.
   Choice C is incorrect because the graph shows that about 50% of participants,
   not 25%, mentioned costs as a factor.

   QUESTION 13

   Choice A is the best answer because it presents the quotation that best supports
   the student's claim that in The Politics, Aristotle gives advice on preserving
   constitutions--preventing governments from falling and maintaining order--and
   specifically asserts that in a healthy state, laws must be followed as strictly as
   possible and infractions should not be overlooked even if they are minor. The
   philosopher states that when Aristotle builds his argument about the
   characteristics of a well-functioning government, Aristotle asserts that
   transgression, or violation of law, will ruin the state if it "creeps in unperceived," or
   goes unnoticed. The philosopher then adds that Aristotle illustrates this point by
   comparing the situation to one in which small but frequent expenses diminish a
   fortune almost unnoticeably until, eventually, the fortune is entirely gone. In other
   words, the philosopher indicates that Aristotle makes the point that total
   obedience to law preserves a healthy state while even small violations, if ignored,
   will undermine the health of the state.

   Choice B is incorrect because the philosopher addresses Aristotle's observation
   about corruption within the government (in particular, preventing the possibility
   that members of the government can take bribes), and although corruption can
   involve infractions, the observation is about a subset of people within the state
   and isn't directly connected to the importance of upholding total obedience to the
   law throughout the state. Choice C is incorrect because the philosopher
   discusses Aristotle's point about those who would intentionally destroy a
   constitution altogether and the need for rulers to remind the populace that it
   would be dangerous for a constitution to collapse, but neither idea is directly
   connected to the importance of upholding total obedience to the law. Choice D is
   incorrect because the philosopher explains that Aristotle makes the point that

8  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
   SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

   oligarchic leaders may retain power by having members of disenfranchised
   classes participate in government alongside governing classes, and this point
   doesn't address the importance of ensuring obedience to the law and addressing
   even minor violations.

   QUESTION 14

   Choice B is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would most
   directly support the researchers' conclusion that an observable pattern in time
   references in novels reflects a shift in human behavior prompted by the spread of
   electric lighting in the late nineteenth century. If novels published after 1880
   contain significantly more references to activities occurring after 10 p.m. than
   novels from earlier periods do, this would suggest a change in human behavior
   and daily routines enabled by the availability of electric lighting. Before electric
   lighting--which provided illumination more easily than other available forms of
   light--many activities ceased after nightfall, so references to late-night activities
   would be less common in earlier novels. An increase in such references after
   1880 would align with the researchers' conclusion, reflecting an increase in
   late-night activities made possible by electric lighting.

   Choice A is incorrect because a decrease in references to 10 a.m. after the year
   1800 would not support the researchers' conclusion involving a shift in human
   behavior prompted by the spread of electric lighting toward the end of the 1800s.
   The time of 10 a.m. is in the morning and, in most places, characterized by
   daylight, so a change in references to that time would not be clearly linked to the
   impact of electric lighting. Choice C is incorrect because while an increase in
   implied time references relative to clock phrases in nineteenth-century novels
   could suggest a change in writing style or conventions, it does not directly
   support the conclusion involving a shift in human behavior prompted by the
   spread of electric lighting. The text indicates that the researchers' conclusion is
   based on the content of the time references themselves, not the phrasing used.
   Choice D is incorrect. If references to noon and midnight are used with roughly
   the same frequency in all the novels analyzed by the researchers, this would
   reflect a lack of change in human behavior with regard to time and therefore
   would not support the researchers' conclusion involving a shift in human behavior
   that occurred in response to the spread of electric lighting.

   QUESTION 15

   Choice A is the best answer because it most effectively uses data from the graph
   to complete the statement about Mahtta et al.'s proposal regarding factors that
   affect urban land expansion (ULE). According to the text, ULE is influenced by
   urban population growth and by gross domestic product (GDP) growth per capita.
   Reasoning that efficient national governments provide urban services and
   infrastructure needed to attract economic investment, Mahtta et al. suggest that,
   as governments become more efficient at providing urban services and
   infrastructure, GDP growth per capita will account for more ULE and urban
   population growth will account for less. But according to the graph, Region 1 saw
   an increase in the percentage attributed to urban population growth from 1970­
   2000 (between 60 and 65%) to 2000­2014 (between 70 and 75%) and a decrease

9  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    in the percentage attributed to GDP growth per capita from 1970­2000 (between
    35 and 40%) to 2000­2014 (about 25%). Because the percentage attributed to
    GDP growth per capita decreased (the opposite of what Mahtta et al. claimed
    would happen if the governments had become more efficient), the data suggest
    that the governments of Region 1 became less efficient at providing urban
    services and infrastructure over that period.

    Choice B is incorrect. Neither the graph nor the text gives the regions' relative
    levels of economic growth or what effect Mahtta et al. would expect such growth
    to have. Furthermore, Mahtta et al.'s proposal suggests that Region 1's decline in
    the percentage of ULE attributed to GDP growth per capita from 1970­2000
    (between 35 and 40%) to 2000­2014 (about 25%) would suggest decreasing, not
    increasing, government efficiency over this time. Choice C is incorrect. Neither
    the text nor the graph provides information about the relative efficiencies of
    different governments in Region 2. Choice D is incorrect. Mahtta et al.'s proposal
    suggests that more efficient governments will have a higher percentage of their
    ULE driven by GDP growth per capita and a lower percentage driven by urban
    population growth. For Region 2, the percentage of ULE attributed to GDP growth
    per capita increased from 1970­2000 (between 10 and 15%) to 2000­2014
    (between 45 and 50%), but the opposite is true for Region 1, which saw the
    percentage of ULE attributed to GDP growth per capita decline over the same
    period. Thus, whereas the data suggest governments in Region 2 became more
    efficient, the data for Region 1 suggest that those governments became less
    efficient, not more.

    QUESTION 16

    Choice B is the best answer because it describes data from the graph that best
    support the student's assertion that initial efforts at trade liberalization in China
    were shaped by firms having limited capital (assets available for use) and that this
    situation resolved during the 2000s. The text explains that an approach to trade
    liberalization involves engaging in processing imports, one type of which doesn't
    require payment to a trade partner (processing with assembly) and one type of
    which requires upfront payment to a trade partner for raw materials (processing
    with inputs). The graph, which presents China's imports for ordinary imports and
    both types of processing imports in the years 2000, 2003, and 2006, shows that
    while processing imports with assembly rose from about 250 hundred million
    dollars in 2000 to about 750 hundred million dollars in 2006, processing imports
    with inputs rose much more sharply, increasing from approximately 650 hundred
    million dollars in 2000 to about 2,300 hundred million dollars in 2006. Because
    processing with inputs requires firms to pay for materials (expending capital) and
    processing with assembly doesn't, the sharper rise in processing imports with
    inputs suggests that Chinese firms' assets--and thus their ability to engage in
    that type of processing imports--were relatively limited in (and before) 2000 and
    then substantially increased from 2000 to 2006. In other words, the data suggest
    that the situation of having limited capital resolved during the 2000s.

    Choice A is incorrect because the graph indicates that ordinary imports were
    greater than both types of processing imports in 2006, not that processing
    imports with inputs were greater than ordinary imports and processing imports

10  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    with assembly that year. Choice C is incorrect because the observation that
    ordinary imports were greater than both types of processing imports in 2000,
    2003, and 2006 doesn't address a change within any type of imports from 2000
    to 2006, and an indication of a change in that period that might be related to the
    availability of assets is needed to support the assertion that the situation of
    having limited capital resolved during the 2000s. Choice D is incorrect because
    the fact that processing imports with assembly were greater at the end of the
    period from 2000 to 2006 than processing imports with inputs were at the start of
    the same period doesn't address a change within either type of imports during
    the period, and an indication of such a change that might be related to the
    availability of assets is needed to support the assertion that the situation of
    having limited capital resolved during the 2000s.

    QUESTION 17

    Choice C is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of Kristin Laidre's reasoning about the purpose of the tusk that many,
    but not all, narwhals have. The text explains that one group of scientists thinks the
    tusk may help narwhals detect the threat of freezing water and that Laidre
    disagrees with that idea, given the importance of avoiding a dangerous situation.
    It's logical to suggest that if the tusk serves such an important purpose for
    narwhals, the trait would be more common among them--specifically, that more
    narwhals would have a tusk.

    Choice A is incorrect because there's no reason to think Laidre would say that if
    the tusk has the important function of helping narwhals detect when the water
    around them is about to freeze (meaning that it isn't always freezing), some
    narwhals would choose a different habitat altogether. Indeed, if it's true that the
    tusk helps narwhals avoid areas with dangerous conditions when they occur in
    their Arctic Ocean habitat, the tusk would likely enable the narwhals to continue
    living in that habitat rather than drive them elsewhere entirely. Choice B is
    incorrect because the text focuses only on narwhals and makes no mention of
    other marine animals or how having a tusk might affect them. And if anything, it
    would be more logical to expect a very important trait to be more widespread, not
    less common, among other similar types of animals. Choice D is incorrect.
    Although the text describes narwhals as shy, it doesn't indicate that the scientists'
    conclusion has anything to do with shyness. And because shyness and detection
    of the threat of freezing water aren't logically connected, there's no reason to
    think that Laidre would expect narwhals to become less shy over time if the tusk
    serves that important purpose.

    QUESTION 18

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of silicon carbide (SiC) fibers and creep, or deformation related to
    ongoing mechanical stress and elevated temperatures. The text states that Bhatt
    et al. found that a nitrogen-treated SiC fiber had a lower minimum creep rate than
    two polymer-derived SiC fibers did. Because having a lower creep rate means that
    the material is slower to deform with exposure to stress, as the text explains, this
    finding suggests that aerospace composites made with the nitrogen-treated SiC

11  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    fiber may be able to withstand mechanical stress for a longer period than those
    made with the other two polymer-derived SiC fibers can.

    Choice A is incorrect because it overstates the implications of the study's
    findings, which have to do with the rate of a material's deformation under stress,
    not the absolute degree of deformation. The text states that Bhatt et al. observed
    that a nitrogen-treated SiC fiber had a lower minimum creep rate than two
    polymer-derived SiC fibers did, meaning only that it deformed more slowly over
    time under constant stress, not that it underwent less deformation overall.
    Choice B is incorrect because the text doesn't establish any similarity between
    the two polymer-derived SiC fibers other than that both had a higher creep rate
    than the nitrogen-treated SiC fiber did in Bhatt et al.'s study. Moreover, reducing a
    material's resistance to creep would mean that the material becomes more
    susceptible to deformation with exposure to stress and elevated temperatures,
    which would be expected to shorten rather than prolong the lifespan of machinery
    made with that material. Choice C is incorrect because the text suggests that the
    stability of aerospace equipment may be better improved by composites
    containing nitrogen-treated SiC fiber than by composites containing the two
    polymer-derived SiC fibers, not the other way around. The text indicates that
    Bhatt et al. observed that the nitrogen-treated SiC fiber had a lower minimum
    creep rate than the other two fibers did, meaning that it was slower to degrade
    under exposure to mechanical stress and elevated temperatures--suggesting
    that it may remain stable for longer periods.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of verb forms
    within a sentence. The singular verb "describes" agrees in number with the
    singular subject "map."

    Choice B is incorrect because the plural verb "describe" doesn't agree in number
    with the singular subject "map." Choice C is incorrect because the plural verb
    "have described" doesn't agree in number with the singular subject "map."
    Choice D is incorrect because the plural verb "are describing" doesn't agree in
    number with the singular subject "map."

    QUESTION 20

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    determiners in a sentence. The plural determiner "these" agrees in number with
    the plural noun "letters" that it modifies. This choice clearly indicates that the
    letters demonstrate Alcott's business sense.

    Choice A is incorrect because the singular determiner "one" doesn't agree in
    number with the plural noun "letters." Choice B is incorrect because the singular
    determiner "that" doesn't agree in number with the plural noun "letters." Choice C
    is incorrect because the singular determiner "this" doesn't agree in number with
    the plural noun "letters."

12  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 21

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of verbs to
    express tense in a sentence. In this choice, the past tense verb "affected," used in
    conjunction with the phrase "during this time," correctly indicates that the dust
    storms occurred in the 1930s.

    Choice A is incorrect because the present progressive tense verb "are affecting"
    doesn't indicate that the dust storms occurred in the 1930s. Choice B is incorrect
    because the future perfect tense verb "will have affected" doesn't indicate that
    the dust storms occurred in the 1930s. Choice C is incorrect because the future
    tense verb "will affect" doesn't indicate that the dust storms occurred in the
    1930s.

    QUESTION 22

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is the coordination of
    main clauses within a sentence. This choice correctly uses a comma and a
    coordinating conjunction ("but") to join the first main clause ("Leibniz...century")
    and the second main clause ("these ingenious...calculators").

    Choice A is incorrect because it results in a run-on sentence. The two main
    clauses are fused without punctuation and/or a conjunction. Choice B is incorrect
    because it results in a comma splice. Without a conjunction following it, a comma
    can't be used in this way to join two main clauses. Choice D is incorrect because
    joining the two main clauses in this way with the subordinating conjunction "that"
    results in an ungrammatical and illogical sentence.

    QUESTION 23

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of verb forms
    within a sentence. The nonfinite past participle "characterized" is correctly used
    within a supplementary element that modifies the main clause "Zhang...shanshui,"
    defining qinglü shanshui and explaining some of its identifying traits.

    Choice A is incorrect because it results in a comma splice. Using the finite present
    perfect tense verb "has been characterized" creates a second main clause in the
    sentence, and the two main clauses can't be joined in this way by only the comma
    before "a type." Choice B is incorrect because it results in a comma splice. Using
    the finite future tense verb "will be characterized" creates a second main clause in
    the sentence, and the two main clauses can't be joined in this way by only the
    comma before "a type." Choice D is incorrect because it results in a comma
    splice. Using the finite present tense verb "is characterized" creates a second
    main clause in the sentence, and the two main clauses can't be joined in this way
    by only the comma before "a type."

    QUESTION 24

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is punctuation use
    between sentences. In this choice, the period is used correctly to mark the
    boundary between one sentence ("What...vapor") and another ("With...point").

13  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    Choice B is incorrect because it results in a run-on sentence. The sentences
    ("What...vapor" and "with...point") are fused without punctuation and/or a
    conjunction. Choice C is incorrect because it results in a comma splice. A comma
    can't be used in this way to mark the boundary between sentences. Choice D is
    incorrect. Without a comma preceding it, the conjunction "and" can't be used in
    this way to join sentences.

    QUESTION 25

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is subject-modifier
    placement. This choice makes the noun phrase "the Alaska Centennial
    Commission" the subject of the sentence and places it immediately after the
    modifying phrase "wanting...Purchase." In doing so, this choice clearly establishes
    that the Alaska Centennial Commission--and not another noun in the sentence--
    wanted to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Alaska Purchase.

    Choice A is incorrect because it results in a dangling modifier. The placement of
    the noun phrase "a contest" immediately after the modifying phrase illogically
    suggests that the contest wanted to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the
    Alaska Purchase. Choice B is incorrect because it results in a dangling modifier.
    The placement of the noun phrase "an award of $300" immediately after the
    modifying phrase illogically suggests that the award of $300 wanted to celebrate
    the 100th anniversary of the Alaska Purchase. Choice C is incorrect because it
    results in a dangling modifier. The placement of the noun phrase "$300"
    immediately after the modifying phrase illogically suggests that the $300 wanted
    to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Alaska Purchase.

    QUESTION 26

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation within a sentence. This choice correctly uses a comma to mark the
    boundary between the main clause ("Recently...supposed") and the
    supplementary element ("a finding...Paleolithic") that provides additional
    information about the implications of the Neronian tool discovery.

    Choice A is incorrect because a semicolon can't be used in this way to join the
    main clause ("Recently...supposed") and the supplementary element ("a finding...
    Paleolithic"). Choice B is incorrect because it results in a rhetorically unacceptable
    sentence fragment beginning with "a finding." Choice C is incorrect because it
    results in a run-on sentence. The main clause ("Recently...supposed") and the
    supplementary element ("a finding...Paleolithic") are fused without punctuation
    and/or a conjunction.

    QUESTION 27

    Choice A is the best answer. "Additionally" logically signals that guard cells' role in
    regulating water loss is an additional function of these specialized plant cells that
    is separate from the function of regulating carbon dioxide intake.

    Choice B is incorrect because "previously" illogically signals that the activity
    described in this sentence occurs earlier in a chronological sequence of events

14  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    than the regulation of carbon dioxide intake described in the previous sentence.
    Instead, regulating water loss is an additional function of guard cells that is
    separate from the function of regulating carbon dioxide intake. Choice C is
    incorrect because "in conclusion" illogically signals that the description of guard
    cells' role in regulating water loss concludes or summarizes the information about
    guard cells provided in the previous sentences. Instead, regulating water loss is
    one of the two distinct functions of guard cells described in the text. Choice D is
    incorrect because "instead" illogically signals that the activity described in this
    sentence happens in place of the activity of regulating carbon dioxide intake
    described in the previous sentence. Rather, regulating water loss is an additional
    function of guard cells.

    QUESTION 28

    Choice D is the best answer. The sentence identifies the type of scientist
    Chaudhuri is, noting that she is a sedimentologist.

    Choice A is incorrect. The sentence provides an example of a type of sedimentary
    rock; it doesn't identify what type of scientist Chaudhuri is. Choice B is incorrect.
    The sentence indicates types of rock that some scientists study; it doesn't
    identify what type of scientist Chaudhuri is. Choice C is incorrect. While the
    sentence states that some scientists study sedimentary rocks, it doesn't identify
    Chaudhuri as this type of scientist.

    QUESTION 29

    Choice A is the best answer. The sentence indicates where "Raymond's Run"
    takes place, stating that it takes place in Harlem.

    Choice B is incorrect. The sentence identifies the book in which the story
    "Raymond's Run" was published; it doesn't indicate where the story takes place.
    Choice C is incorrect. The sentence indicates the point of view used in
    "Raymond's Run"; it doesn't indicate where the story takes place. Choice D is
    incorrect. The sentence identifies the author of "Raymond's Run"; it doesn't
    indicate where the story takes place.

    QUESTION 30

    Choice C is the best answer. The sentence contrasts the two styles of tiles,
    noting that tiles in the arista style have designs stamped into them, whereas tiles
    in the majolica style have designs painted directly on them.

    Choice A is incorrect because the sentence indicates that the two styles of tile
    can be found in the same location; it doesn't contrast the two styles of tile.
    Choice B is incorrect because the sentence indicates that the Royal Alcázar of
    Seville features tiles in both the majolica and arista styles; it doesn't contrast the
    two styles of tile. Choice D is incorrect because the sentence indicates that the
    tilework of the Royal Alcázar of Seville includes tiles in the majolica style; it doesn't
    contrast tiles in the majolica style with tiles in the arista style.

15  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 31

    Choice B is the best answer. The sentence contrasts the two songs, noting that
    "Poor Miner's Farewell" is about coal miners in Kentucky, whereas "Bring Him Back
    Home" is about Nelson Mandela.

    Choice A is incorrect. The sentence emphasizes a similarity between "Poor
    Miner's Farewell" and "Bring Him Back Home"; it doesn't contrast the two songs.
    Choice C is incorrect. While the sentence provides a description of the song
    "Bring Him Back Home," it doesn't mention "Poor Miner's Farewell" or contrast the
    two songs. Choice D is incorrect. While the sentence provides a description of the
    song "Poor Miner's Farewell," it doesn't mention "Bring Him Back Home" or
    contrast the two songs.

    QUESTION 32

    Choice C is the best answer. Using a quotation from Stewart, the sentence
    challenges Thucydides's explanation that the rise of Athens caused the conflict,
    suggesting that it was instead caused by a "clash of cultures."

    Choice A is incorrect. While the sentence uses a quotation, the quotation doesn't
    challenge Thucydides's explanation of the conflict. Choice B is incorrect. While
    the sentence mentions that Stewart challenged Thucydides's explanation of the
    conflict, it doesn't use a quotation to challenge Thucydides's explanation: the
    quoted word "inevitable" is from Thucydides. Choice D is incorrect. While the
    sentence appears to refute Thucydides's explanation, it does so in a way that
    misrepresents the information in the notes; Allison's Thucydides trap theory is
    based on Thucydides's explanation of the conflict. Thus, Allison's theory affirms,
    rather than challenges, Thucydides's explanation.

    QUESTION 33

    Choice D is the best answer. The sentence presents an overview of the study's
    findings, noting that, for some of the languages (the examples of Spanish and
    Vietnamese are given in the notes), the number of syllables spoken per second
    varied, while the amount of information conveyed per second remained roughly
    constant across all 17 languages.

    Choice A is incorrect. While the sentence describes one of the metrics the study
    assessed, it doesn't present any of the study's findings. Choice B is incorrect.
    While the sentence compares specific findings about two of the languages
    studied, it doesn't provide an overview of the study's findings across all
    17 languages. Choice C is incorrect. The sentence compares specific findings
    about two of the languages studied; it doesn't provide an overview of the study's
    findings across all 17 languages. It also misrepresents the information from the
    notes about Spanish's information rate.

16  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Reading and Writing

    Module 2

    (33 questions)

    QUESTION 1

    Choice C is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of carte de visite photos. To "popularize" a technology is to allow it to
    be used and appreciated widely. The text explains that unlike the photos produced
    by earlier forms of photographic technology, carte de visite photos were
    inexpensive and could easily be obtained by "everyday people," who enjoyed
    exchanging the images. Therefore, carte de visite photos helped popularize
    photography.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text indicates that instead of weakening the
    emerging technology of photography, carte de visite photos allowed it to be more
    widely accessed and enjoyed by people. Choice B is incorrect. The text
    establishes that large numbers of people enjoyed using carte de visite photos, so
    it can be inferred that these photos caused photography to be praised, or
    celebrated. However, it wouldn't make sense to say that inanimate objects--in this
    case, photos--had praised photography; instead, carte de visite consumers
    themselves would have praised it. Choice D is incorrect because the text explains
    that rather than isolating photography, or limiting its availability, carte de visite
    technology made photography more widely accessible to people.

    QUESTION 2

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of painter Alma W. Thomas's work. In this context, "influenced" means
    to have had an effect on something's development. The text indicates that there
    is a connection between Thomas's work and the flowers and trees in her home's
    garden, giving the example of Thomas's brushstrokes being inspired by light
    shining through the leaves of a tree in front of her house. This context conveys
    that Thomas's work was influenced by the flowers and trees in the garden.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text conveys that Thomas drew inspiration for
    her work from the plants in her garden, which suggests that the flowers and trees
    contributed positively to her work, not that they "restricted," or limited, her work.

17  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Choice B is incorrect because it wouldn't make sense to suggest that flowers and
    trees in a garden could have "announced," or made known, a painter's work.
    Choice C is incorrect because the text conveys that Thomas drew inspiration for
    her work from the plants in her garden, which suggests that the flowers and trees
    contributed positively to her work, not that they were a distraction. Further, it's not
    clear how an artist's work could itself be "distracted."

    QUESTION 3

    Choice C is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of the conservationists' efforts to increase Azores bullfinch's numbers.
    In this context, "successful" means accomplishing a goal or purpose. According
    to the text, conservationists planted more than 500,000 native trees in an Azores
    bullfinch habitat in order to boost the bird's population size. The text then
    indicates that the population size did indeed grow as a result of the planted trees.
    Thus, in this context, the conservationists' approach of planting native trees was
    successful because it achieved the goal of increasing the bird's population size.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text gives no indication that the
    conservationists' approach of planting native trees to increase Azores bullfinch's
    numbers was "amusing," or comical or entertaining. Instead, the approach was
    seriously undertaken and ultimately accomplished. Choice B is incorrect because
    the text doesn't address how much it cost to achieve the goal of planting native
    trees to increase Azores bullfinch's numbers. The text indicates that the approach
    was beneficial and successful rather than "costly," or expensive or harmful.
    Choice D is incorrect. According to the text, the conservationists' approach of
    planting native trees to increase Azores bullfinch's numbers was beneficial and
    successful rather than "disastrous," or damaging or unsuccessful.

    QUESTION 4

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of the duration of gamma ray burst GRB 230307A. In this context, "an
    oddity" is something that is odd or unusual. The text explains that the burst lasted
    for 200 seconds and that other bursts generated by neutron mergers have usually
    lasted fewer than 2 seconds. In other words, the duration of gamma ray burst
    GRB 230307A was unusual.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text focuses on a difference between the
    duration of gamma ray burst GRB 230307A and the typical duration of bursts
    caused by neutron mergers, not "a coincidence," or a point of correspondence,
    between them; the text indicates that GRB 230307A lasted much longer than
    what is typical of other bursts. Choice B is incorrect. In this context, "a reprieve"
    would be either a temporary relief from something or a delay of a punishment,
    neither of which would make sense as something that the duration of a gamma
    ray burst could provide to the burst itself. Choice C is incorrect. Although it would
    make sense to refer to gamma ray burst GRB 230307A itself as "an incident," or a
    thing that occurred, the missing word describes the duration of the burst, and it
    doesn't make much sense to describe a length of time as an incident. Further, the
    sentence emphasizes that the burst's duration was very unusual, not simply that
    the burst occurred.

18  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 5

    Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of Benjamin Franklin's popularity in France. In this context, "esteem"
    means high regard. The text indicates that Franklin was very popular, or highly
    regarded, in France, where he sought the country's support for the United States
    in its fight for independence, and indicates that his status helped him achieve his
    goal. The context therefore suggests that being held in high regard by the people
    likely helped Franklin convince France to help the United States.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text directly indicates that it was Franklin's
    popularity that likely helped him convince France to help the United States, not his
    "thoughtfulness" (which in this context would mean either his careful reasoning
    and attention or his kind consideration of others' needs). Choice C is incorrect
    because the text doesn't suggest that there was any "controversy," or dispute,
    about Franklin's presence in France; instead, the text states that Franklin was very
    popular in France and directly indicates that this status likely helped him convince
    France to help the United States. Choice D is incorrect because the text directly
    indicates that it was Franklin's popularity that likely helped him convince France to
    help the United States, not his "sincerity," or his honesty.

    QUESTION 6

    Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately describes how the
    underlined sentence functions in the text as a whole. The first sentence of the text
    establishes that scientists didn't know much about the ocean floor in the 1950s.
    The second sentence, which is underlined, describes what many scientists
    thought at the time--that the ocean floor was mostly flat. The remainder of the
    text establishes that the ocean floor is far from flat, citing research conducted by
    Marie Tharp and Bruce Heezen. Thus, the purpose of the underlined sentence is
    to identify a scientific belief that Tharp and Heezen showed to be wrong.

    Choice B is incorrect. Although Tharp and Heezen's work with sonar data in the
    Atlantic Ocean is mentioned later in the text, the underlined sentence doesn't
    describe the design of their experiment. Instead, it identifies a belief held by
    scientists that Tharp and Heezen demonstrated to be wrong. Choice C is
    incorrect because the underlined sentence presents a belief held by many
    scientists in the 1950s; nowhere does the text mention a disagreement between
    Tharp and Heezen, whom the text describes as research partners working
    together to map the ocean floor. Choice D is incorrect because the underlined
    sentence doesn't present data in support of a claim; instead, it presents a
    scientific belief that Tharp and Heezen's work showed to be wrong.

    QUESTION 7

    Choice B is the best answer because it accurately describes the function of the
    underlined phrase in the text as a whole. According to the text, advertisers were
    reluctant to support television in its early days. The underlined phrase then
    indicates that this reluctance was partly due to the US's involvement in World
    War II, which hindered television production. Thus, the underlined phrase
    identifies a specific reason behind some advertisers' hesitance to support
    television.

19  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Choice A is incorrect. The text merely mentions that television was expected to
    be financed through advertising, as radio was at the time. Nothing in the text
    compares the origins of radio and television. Choice C is incorrect. The underlined
    phrase focuses on a reason advertisers were reluctant to support television, not
    measures taken to convince advertisers to support television. Choice D is
    incorrect. The underlined phrase focuses on a reason advertisers were reluctant
    to support television, not what types of television programming were popular.

    QUESTION 8

    Choice B is the best answer because it most accurately describes the function of
    the underlined sentence in the text as a whole. The text discusses the Bayeux
    Tapestry, making the point that the workers who produced the huge tapestry in
    the eleventh century might not have ever produced a tapestry so large before.
    The text goes on to suggest that because of this lack of previous experience, the
    workers developed and refined the process of joining the tapestry's panels over
    time as they worked. The last sentence of the text then provides an example of an
    observation that suggests the workers' process changed: clear misalignment of
    the borders of the two panels the workers joined first and virtually invisible joins
    completed later. Thus, the underlined sentence serves to support an argument
    about the workers who produced the tapestry.

    Choice A is incorrect because the example given in the last sentence of the text
    has to do with how the panels of the Bayeux Tapestry were joined by the workers,
    not with what is depicted in those panels; the text never identifies any people or
    places depicted in the tapestry. Choice C is incorrect because the last sentence
    compares how early panels in the Bayeux Tapestry were joined with how later
    panels in the same tapestry were joined; it doesn't make any comparison between
    the Bayeux Tapestry and other tapestries from the same time in France. Choice D
    is incorrect because the last sentence doesn't address the location where the
    Bayeux Tapestry was created; the first sentence of the text presents it as a given
    that the tapestry was created in France, but nothing in the text indicates how that
    origin was determined.

    QUESTION 9

    Choice D is the best answer because it reflects how the author of Text 2 would
    most likely respond to what the researchers mentioned in Text 1 contend. Text 1
    discusses the lack of knowledge of how plate tectonics on Earth began. Text 1
    also mentions researchers who contend that movements of tectonic plates began
    around 3 billion years ago. As support for this assertion, these researchers cite
    computer models (which are simulations, not empirical evidence) of the
    temperature in Earth's mantle that show that at that time, the mantle would have
    been sufficiently molten for plates to move. However, the author of Text 2 asserts
    that empirical evidence from the geological record is necessary to make plausible
    claims about when tectonic movement began. Text 2 mentions an analysis
    performed by Wriju Chowdhury and his team of the geochemistry of zircon
    crystals (which would constitute empirical evidence). Chowdhury and his team
    argue, based on this analysis, that tectonic plates may have begun to move as
    early as 4.2 billion years ago. Therefore, since the author of Text 2 would consider

20  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Chowdhury et al.'s empirical evidence to be more conclusive than the computer
    models cited in Text 1, the author of Text 2 would most likely assert that a more
    definitive form of evidence than the computer models suggests a different
    timeline for the onset of plate tectonics on Earth.

    Choice A is incorrect because the author of Text 2 makes no claims about the
    temperature of Earth's mantle and therefore wouldn't argue that the temperature
    of Earth's mantle 3 billion years ago was insufficient to allow tectonic movement.
    Choice B is incorrect because the author of Text 2 claims that empirical evidence
    is needed to fix the earliest date of tectonic movement. Computer models are
    simulations, not empirical evidence, so the author of Text 2 wouldn't distinguish
    between different kinds of computer models but would instead argue that no
    computer models can reliably predict the onset of plate tectonics. Choice C is
    incorrect because the author of Text 2 wouldn't consider any computer model to
    be able to provide evidence to support a plausible claim about tectonic
    movement, no matter how much such models were improved. The author of Text 2
    would only accept empirical evidence.

    QUESTION 10

    Choice B is the best answer because it most accurately states what feature of
    Hevea brasiliensis is helpful for the process of making rubber. According to the
    text, this tree species produces latex, which is used to make rubber, and its inner
    bark contains a "network of tubes" that, when cut, enables the latex to flow out.
    The text explicitly states that this feature of Hevea brasiliensis is "helpful for the
    process of making rubber."

    Choice A is incorrect because the text doesn't mention the quality of the rubber
    produced from the latex of Hevea brasiliensis or compare its quality to that of
    rubber produced from other sources. Choice C is incorrect because the text
    never discusses the climates in which Hevea brasiliensis grows. Moreover, the
    text mentions only one region where this tree is found: the Amazon rainforest.
    Choice D is incorrect. Because the text states that Hevea brasiliensis is the
    world's "main source of natural rubber," it can be inferred that there is at least one
    other source. However, the text doesn't specify whether that other source is also
    a tree species and, if so, whether that species grows in the Amazon rainforest.

    QUESTION 11

    Choice B is the best answer because it best states the main idea of the text: that
    nature-based approaches can be effective for achieving conservation goals. The
    text indicates that in many cases where conservationists are trying to protect
    ecosystems, their methods depend on natural processes or features. The text
    then gives an example of this phenomenon, a project with the Quinault Indian
    Nation that allowed logjams to form naturally in a river, creating spawning habitats
    for blueback salmon.

    Choice A is incorrect. Although the text does suggest that the partnership with
    the Quinault Indian Nation was beneficial, this is not the central aim of the text; the
    text primarily argues that nature-based approaches to conservation can be
    effective. Choice C is incorrect. Although the text indicates that logjams are

21  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    helpful to blueback salmon, the example of the blueback salmon project is
    included to illustrate the larger point made earlier in the text: that nature-based
    approaches to conservation are often effective. Choice D is incorrect. There is no
    evidence in the text to support a direct comparison of the efficacy of nature-
    based conservation approaches to other types of approaches. The text merely
    indicates that nature-based approaches can often be effective.

    QUESTION 12

    Choice D is the best answer because it effectively uses data from the table to
    complete the student's claim about the highest percentage of bus stops with
    shaded shelter in the areas represented. The table shows the highest average
    surface temperature of five areas and the percentage of bus stops with shaded
    shelter in each area, and 29% is the highest percentage listed.

    Choice A is incorrect because the list of percentages of bus stops with shaded
    shelter does not include 50%; the highest percentage in the table is 29%.
    Choice B is incorrect because 15% is the lowest value in the listed percentages of
    bus stops with shaded shelter, not the highest value. Choice C is incorrect
    because the list of percentages of bus stops with shaded shelter does not include
    90%; the highest percentage in the table is 29%.

    QUESTION 13

    Choice C is the best answer because it states the total area of Bahrain that is
    indicated in the table. The table presents the total area (in square miles) and
    population for Bahrain, Qatar, and Kuwait, and it indicates that the total area of
    Bahrain is 304 square miles.

    Choice A is incorrect because the table indicates that 4,268,873 is the population
    of Kuwait, not the total area of Bahrain. Choice B is incorrect because the table
    indicates that 4,471 square miles is the total area of Qatar, not of Bahrain.
    Choice D is incorrect because the table indicates that 6,880 square miles is the
    total area of Kuwait, not of Bahrain.

    QUESTION 14

    Choice C is the best answer because it presents the quotation that most
    effectively illustrates the claim that Echelman's sculptures appear delicate but are
    in fact quite durable. The text explains that Echelman's sculptures include flowing
    shapes that mimic the wind. If it is true that the materials she uses are both
    flexible and strong, that would help explain why the works are durable even though
    they appear delicate.

    Choice A is incorrect because the claim in the text is not about how Echelman
    models her work before sculpting. Choice B is incorrect because the claim in the
    text is not about the planning and design phases of Echelman's work. Choice D is
    incorrect because the claim in the text is not about how the sculptures relate to
    their locations.

22  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 15

    Choice D is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would most
    directly support the researchers' conclusion that the transition from a stagnant lid
    regime to a tectonic plate regime occurred around 3.2 billion years ago. The text
    explains that early in Earth's history, Earth exhibited a stagnant lid regime in which
    there's no interaction between the lithosphere and the underlying mantle. The text
    further explains that, by contrast, once Earth began to exhibit a tectonic plate
    regime, its lithospheric and mantle material began to mix. If mantle-derived rocks
    younger than 3.2 billion years contain material not found in older mantle-derived
    rocks, that material must have originated somewhere other than the mantle. And if
    this material is found in both older and contemporaneous lithospheric rocks, that
    would imply that the lithosphere was able to mix with mantle material beginning
    around 3.2 billion years ago, as the researchers concluded.

    Choice A is incorrect. The text gives no basis for comparing the quantities of
    lithospheric and mantle-derived rocks. Choice B is incorrect. The text gives no
    basis for comparing the material makeup of lithospheric rocks to that of mantle-
    derived rocks. Choice C is incorrect. A positive correlation between the age of
    lithospheric rocks and these rocks' chemical similarity to mantle-derived rocks
    would mean that the oldest rocks would be the most similar, which contradicts the
    text's claim that lithospheric and mantle-derived rocks were completely separate
    until 3.2 billion years ago. If the researchers' conclusion about the onset of
    tectonics on Earth is correct, then younger lithospheric rocks would show greater
    chemical similarity to mantle-derived rocks than older lithospheric rocks do.

    QUESTION 16

    Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the discussion
    of Uto-Aztecan languages. The text explains that the northern and southern
    branches of the Uto-Aztecan language family descended from a single language
    (believed to have originated in what is now the US Southwest), resulting in
    similarities across the family's languages; however, the branches don't have
    similar vocabulary for maize, even though maize has been cultivated by all
    Uto-Aztecan tribes. The text also indicates that maize originated in Mexico and
    spread northward into what is now the US Southwest--the area where the
    Uto-Aztecan language family originated. It follows, then, that the language family
    had already divided into northern and southern branches before maize reached
    that area; if maize had been present before the division occurred, the family's
    origin language would have had terminology for it that likely would have been
    reflected in the branches, meaning they would have had similar vocabulary for
    maize. If maize arrived after the division occurred, however, the tribes in the two
    regions likely would have developed vocabulary pertaining to maize separately, at
    the times when they acquired the crop.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text focuses on vocabulary pertaining to maize
    in the branches of the Uto-Aztecan language family, and referring only to how
    some Uto-Aztecan tribes obtained maize wouldn't directly address the role of
    language. Moreover, if northern Uto-Aztecan tribes had acquired maize from a
    southern Uto-Aztecan tribe, it's reasonable to assume that the northern tribes

23  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    might have also picked up southern Uto-Aztecan terminology for maize in that
    exchange. Choice B is incorrect because the text discusses the fact that the
    northern and southern branches of the Uto-Aztecan language family don't have
    shared vocabulary pertaining to maize, not the idea that there are variations in
    such vocabulary within each branch--that is, the text focuses on differences
    between the two branches, not on differences between languages within a
    branch. Choice C is incorrect because the text focuses on vocabulary pertaining
    to maize in the branches of the Uto-Aztecan language family, and referring only to
    the timing and source of maize acquisition wouldn't directly address the role of
    language. Furthermore, the text implies that southern Uto-Aztecan tribes probably
    acquired maize before the northern tribes did, given the evidence that maize
    originated in Mexico--the location of the best-known representative of the
    southern branch of the Uto-Aztecan language family--before spreading to the
    north.

    QUESTION 17

    Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of the sediments found at the Gale Crater's Murray Formation on Mars.
    The text states that data gathered by the Curiosity rover suggest that bodies of
    water deposited sediment on Mars's surface long ago. The text goes on to say
    that studying the sediment, Rivera-Hernández et al. found some coarse grains
    they believe are sandstone, which tends to be left by flowing water, and many
    more fine grains they believe are mudstone, which tends to slowly sink in low-flow
    water. The text further indicates that the researchers noted cracks in the fine
    grains that suggest there were cycles of desiccation, or drying, at the site. Taken
    together, this information suggests that a lake (a body of low-flow water) existed
    at the site for a prolonged period but occasionally experienced drying and that
    there were periods in which one or more streams (flowing water) were present,
    since the extended existence of a lake would account for the abundance of fine
    grains, periods of drying would account for the cracks in the fine grains, and
    periods with streams would account for the sections of coarse grains.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text indicates that an abundance of fine grains
    of sediment was found at the Murray Formation site, which suggests that a
    low-flow water source (such as a lake) was present. Further, the text makes no
    mention of where the water at the site may have originated from. Choice C is
    incorrect because the evidence described in the text doesn't support the idea
    that there were streams at the Murray Formation for an extended period and a
    lake for just a short time. The abundance of fine grains suggests that a lake (a
    body of low-flow water) was present for an extended time, not just a short time,
    and the sections of coarse grains suggest that one or more streams (bodies of
    flowing water) were intermittently present while the lake existed, not at a separate
    time. Choice D is incorrect. Although the text suggests that both a low-flow body
    of water (such as a lake) and flowing water (such as streams) existed at the Murray
    Formation site, meaning that there could have been a stream-fed lake, the text
    explains that the fine grains that signify the presence of a lake exhibit cracking
    that indicates periods of desiccation, or drying, which suggests that a lake was
    present but did occasionally dry out.

24  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 18

    Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text's
    discussion of Sidonian coins. As the text explains, researchers determined that
    Sidonian coins were made of silver and copper and that from 450 BCE to
    367 BCE, the percentage of silver in each coin decreased from 98% to 74.2%
    while the percentage of copper increased from 1% to 24.7%. The text indicates
    that because the coins containing less than 80% silver weren't considered
    suitable for trade (suggesting that copper was less valuable than silver) and
    looked different from coins containing more silver, the researchers suspect there
    was a serious loss in confidence in the currency in Sidon in 367 BCE when the
    copper content was high. It's reasonable to assume that it wasn't possible to
    boost confidence simply by devoting a greater amount of valuable silver to the
    currency, since Sidon was under significant and ongoing financial pressure;
    however, keeping the total amount of silver the same and reducing the amount of
    copper in the coins would have resulted in smaller coins with a higher percentage
    of silver. Therefore, it makes sense to suggest that Abd'astart I (the ruler after
    367 BCE) likely restored confidence in the currency by deciding to keep the
    amount of silver in Sidonian coins consistent with that in coins minted in 367 BCE
    but to decrease the coins' weight.

    Choice A is incorrect because the text conveys that a crisis in confidence in the
    currency of Sidon likely occurred around 367 BCE because the percentage of
    silver in coins had fallen below 80% (presumably because Sidon's financial
    pressures meant that less silver was available for currency), making the coins
    unsuitable for trade. Thus, announcing that the threshold for the percentage of
    silver in coins would be raised--that is, that coins would need to contain even
    more than 80% silver to be suitable for trade--likely would have worsened the
    crisis rather than relieved it. Choice C is incorrect because the text strongly
    suggests that a crisis in confidence in the currency of Sidon was caused by the
    proportion of silver to copper in the coins in 367 BCE, with 74.2% being too little
    silver for the coins to be considered suitable for trade; therefore, it's unlikely that
    minting coins with a similar proportion of silver to copper (that is, still around
    74.2% silver) would have restored confidence, even if the coins were heavier.
    Choice D is incorrect because the text gives no indication that funding the mining
    of more copper would have relieved a crisis in confidence in the currency of
    Sidon. The text establishes that Sidonian coins that visibly contained copper
    weren't considered suitable for trade, so Abd'astart I wouldn't have wanted to add
    even more copper to them, and it's unclear how else copper mining would affect
    views of the currency.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of verb forms
    within a sentence. The nonfinite to-infinitive verb "to include" is correctly used to
    form a subordinate clause that indicates what the Olympic committee decided (to
    include tug-of-war as an Olympic event).

    Choice A is incorrect because it results in an ungrammatical sentence. The finite
    verb "included" can't be used in this way to form a subordinate clause that

25  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    indicates what the Olympic committee decided. Choice B is incorrect because it
    results in an ungrammatical sentence. The nonfinite participle "including" can't be
    used in this way to form a subordinate clause that indicates what the Olympic
    committee decided. Choice C is incorrect because it results in an ungrammatical
    sentence. The finite verb "include" can't be used in this way to form a subordinate
    clause that indicates what the Olympic committee decided.

    QUESTION 20

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of verbs to
    express tense. In this choice, the past tense verb "malfunctioned" is consistent
    with the other past tense verbs ("ignited" and "was") used to describe the
    destruction of the original Globe Theatre.

    Choice A is incorrect because the present tense verb "malfunctions" isn't
    consistent with the other past tense verbs used to describe the destruction of the
    original Globe Theatre. Choice B is incorrect because the future tense verb "will
    malfunction" isn't consistent with the other past tense verbs used to describe the
    destruction of the original Globe Theatre. Choice C is incorrect because the
    present perfect tense verb "has malfunctioned" isn't consistent with the other
    past tense verbs used to describe the destruction of the original Globe Theatre.

    QUESTION 21

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is punctuation use
    between a subject and a verb. No punctuation is needed when, as in this case, a
    subject ("Her portrait of novelist Zadie Smith") is immediately followed by a main
    verb ("is displayed").

    Choice A is incorrect because no punctuation is needed between the subject and
    the verb. Choice B is incorrect because no punctuation is needed between the
    subject and the verb. Choice D is incorrect because no punctuation is needed
    between the subject and the verb.

    QUESTION 22

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is pronoun-antecedent
    agreement. The singular pronoun "it" agrees in number with the singular
    antecedent "industry" and clearly indicates that the industry consists of just one
    or two suppliers per municipality.

    Choice A is incorrect. The plural pronoun "these" neither agrees in number with
    the singular antecedent "industry" nor clearly indicates that the industry--not
    another plural noun in the sentence, such as "start-up costs" or "barriers"--
    consists of just one or two suppliers per municipality. Choice B is incorrect
    because the plural pronoun "they" doesn't agree in number with the singular
    antecedent "industry." Choice D is incorrect because the singular pronoun "this"
    is ambiguous in this context; the resulting sentence leaves unclear what consists
    of just one or two suppliers per municipality.

26  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 23

    Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is the punctuation of
    elements in a complex series. It's conventional to use a semicolon to separate
    items in a complex series with internal punctuation, and in this choice, the
    semicolon after "items" is conventionally used to separate the first item
    ("overseeing...items") and the second item ("managing...law") in a list of Hayden's
    responsibilities.

    Choice A is incorrect because it fails to use appropriate punctuation to separate
    the first item and the second item in the complex series. Choice B is incorrect
    because a comma after "items" doesn't match the semicolon used later to
    separate the second and third items in the series ("managing...law" and "and
    appointing the US poet laureate"). Choice D is incorrect because it results in a
    rhetorically unacceptable sentence fragment beginning with "Managing."

    QUESTION 24

    Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation within a sentence. The comma after "work" pairs with the comma
    after "though" to separate the supplementary element "though" from the rest of
    the sentence. This supplementary element signals that what follows is an
    exception to Chen using software tools to create illustrations, and the pair of
    commas indicates that this element could be removed without affecting the
    grammatical coherence of the sentence.

    Choice B is incorrect because the comma after "work" must be paired with a
    comma after "though" to separate the supplementary element from the rest of
    the sentence. Choice C is incorrect because a semicolon can't be paired with a
    comma in this way to separate the supplementary element from the rest of the
    sentence. Choice D is incorrect because a semicolon can't be paired with a
    comma in this way to separate the supplementary element from the rest of the
    sentence.

    QUESTION 25

    Choice B is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation within a sentence. This choice correctly uses a comma to separate
    the supplementary adverb "though" from the preceding main clause ("They are
    hardly pristine") and uses a semicolon to join the two main clauses ("They...
    though" and "many...objects"). Further, placing the semicolon after "though"
    indicates that the information in the preceding main clause (chondrites are far
    from pristine) is contrary to what might be assumed from the information in the
    previous sentence (chondrites have been generally unaltered by their
    environment).

    Choice A is incorrect because placing the comma after "pristine" and using
    "though" as a subordinating conjunction illogically indicates that the information
    in the next main clause (many chondrites have experienced damage) is contrary
    to the information in the previous clause (chondrites are far from pristine).
    Choice C is incorrect because placing the semicolon after "pristine" illogically

27  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    indicates that the information in the next main clause (many chondrites have
    experienced damage) is contrary to the information in the previous clause
    (chondrites are far from pristine). Choice D is incorrect because it results in a
    comma splice. Without a conjunction following it, the comma after "though" can't
    be used in this way to join two main clauses.

    QUESTION 26

    Choice D is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
    punctuation within a sentence. This choice uses a semicolon in a conventional
    way to join the first main clause ("That the...involved") and the second main clause
    ("establishing...divisive"). Further, the semicolon is the most appropriate choice
    when joining two separate, parallel statements, such as here, where the
    information following the semicolon contrasts with the information before.

    Choice A is incorrect because placing a colon after "involved" illogically indicates
    that the information in the second main clause (the precise location was the
    subject of disagreement) explains or amplifies the information in the previous
    main clause (the general location was agreed upon by all). Instead, the information
    in the second clause contrasts with the previous information. Choice B is
    incorrect because it results in a comma splice. Without a conjunction following it,
    a comma can't be used in this way to join two main clauses. Choice C is incorrect
    because it results in a run-on sentence. The two main clauses are fused without
    punctuation and/or a conjunction.

    QUESTION 27

    Choice B is the best answer. "As a result" logically signals that the action
    described in this sentence--closing the area around Garisenda Tower to explore
    stabilization solutions--occurred as a consequence or result of measurements
    revealing the tower's concerning rotation.

    Choice A is incorrect because "similarly" illogically signals that the action of
    closing the tower area is similar to the discovery of concerning rotation described
    in the previous sentence. Instead, closing the area around the tower to explore
    solutions occurred as a result of the measurements revealing the rotation.
    Choice C is incorrect because "for example" illogically signals that the action of
    closing the tower area serves as an example of the tower's concerning rotation
    described in the previous sentence. Instead, closing the area around the tower to
    explore solutions occurred as a result of the measurements revealing the rotation.
    Choice D is incorrect because "in comparison" illogically signals that the action of
    closing the tower area is being compared to the discovery of concerning rotation
    described in the previous sentence. Instead, closing the area around the tower to
    explore solutions occurred as a result of the measurements revealing the rotation.

    QUESTION 28

    Choice D is the best answer. "Specifically" logically signals that the information in
    this sentence--that the Local Bubble's expansion trapped clouds of gas and dust
    that formed new stars--provides specific, precise details elaborating on the more
    general information in the previous sentence about the relationship between the
    Local Bubble's expansion and the formation of new stars.

28  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    Choice A is incorrect because "hence" illogically signals that the information in
    this sentence is a result of the information in the previous sentence about the
    relationship between the Local Bubble's expansion and the formation of new
    stars. Instead, this sentence provides specific, precise details elaborating on that
    information. Choice B is incorrect because "however" illogically signals that the
    information in this sentence contrasts with the information in the previous
    sentence about the relationship between the Local Bubble's expansion and the
    formation of new stars. Instead, this sentence provides specific, precise details
    elaborating on that information. Choice C is incorrect because "admittedly"
    illogically signals that the information in this sentence provides an exception or
    caveat to the previous information about the relationship between the Local
    Bubble's expansion and the formation of new stars. Instead, this sentence
    provides specific, precise details elaborating on that information.

    QUESTION 29

    Choice A is the best answer. "In particular" logically signals that the information in
    this sentence--that maize and wheat supply chains transformed North American
    foodways into a global food system--provides specific, precise details
    elaborating on the more general information in the previous sentence about the
    transformation of North American foodways (with maize and wheat the "certain
    grains" at the center of it).

    Choice B is incorrect because "alternatively" illogically signals that the information
    in this sentence is an alternative option to the previous information about the
    transformation of North American foodways. Instead, the roles of maize and
    wheat in creating a global food system are specific, precise details elaborating on
    that information. Choice C is incorrect because "by comparison" illogically signals
    that the information in this sentence is being compared to the previous
    information about the transformation of North American foodways. Instead, the
    roles of maize and wheat in creating a global food system are specific, precise
    details elaborating on that information. Choice D is incorrect because "second of
    all" illogically signals that the information in this sentence is a second, separate
    claim from the previous claim that North American foodways were transformed.
    Instead, the roles of maize and wheat in creating a global food system are specific,
    precise details elaborating on that information, rather than a separate claim.

    QUESTION 30

    Choice D is the best answer. "To that end" logically signals that the information in
    this sentence--the students' creation of a show with six starring female roles--is
    the product of a goal or desire in the previous sentence (the students' wish to
    develop a musical with roles for female actors).

    Choice A is incorrect because "in other words" illogically signals that the
    information in this sentence is a paraphrase or restatement of the previous
    information about the students' wish to develop a musical with roles for female
    actors. Instead, the students' show is the product of that desire. Choice B is
    incorrect because "in summary" illogically signals that the information in this
    sentence summarizes the previous information about the students' wish to

29  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n READING AND WRITING: MODULE 2

    develop a musical with roles for female actors. Instead, the students' show is the
    product of that desire. Choice C is incorrect because "for example" illogically
    signals that the information in this sentence is merely an example of the previous
    information about the students' wish to develop a musical with roles for female
    actors. Instead, the students' show is the direct product of that desire.

    QUESTION 31

    Choice C is the best answer. "More often" logically signals that the claim in this
    sentence--that new via ferratas favor recreation over utility--explains a
    difference between the new "sporting activity" routes and the older "mode of
    travel" routes. In so doing, it emphasizes and reinforces the previous claim
    ("modern via ferratas are rarely designed to simply reach a summit").

    Choice A is incorrect because "additionally" illogically signals that this sentence's
    claim about new via ferratas adds a new, separate point to the previous claim
    ("modern via ferratas are rarely designed to simply reach a summit"). Instead, the
    second claim--that new routes favor recreation over utility--emphasizes and
    reinforces the previous one. Choice B is incorrect because "on the other hand"
    illogically signals that this sentence's claim about new via ferratas contrasts with
    or opposes the previous claim ("modern via ferratas are rarely designed to simply
    reach a summit"). Instead, the second claim--that new routes favor recreation
    over utility--emphasizes and reinforces the previous one. Choice D is incorrect
    because "nonetheless" illogically signals that this sentence's claim about new via
    ferratas is true despite the previous claim ("modern via ferratas are rarely
    designed to simply reach a summit"). Instead, the second claim--that new routes
    favor recreation over utility--emphasizes and reinforces the previous one.

    QUESTION 32

    Choice A is the best answer. The sentence indicates the title of a novel that won a
    Nebula Award, noting that Babel-17 by Samuel Delany won the award in 1967.

    Choice B is incorrect because the sentence identifies the year that Samuel Delany
    published a science fiction novel; it doesn't indicate the novel's title or that it won
    a Nebula Award. Choice C is incorrect because the sentence provides an
    introduction of Samuel Delany; it doesn't indicate the title of a novel that has won
    a Nebula Award. Choice D is incorrect because the sentence indicates that one of
    Samuel Delany's novels met the qualification for a Nebula Award; it doesn't
    indicate the novel's title or that it won an award.

    QUESTION 33

    Choice C is the best answer. The sentence indicates the year Yosemite Falls was
    completed, stating that it was completed in 1930.

    Choice A is incorrect. The sentence indicates where Obata created black ink
    paintings; it doesn't indicate when the painting was completed. Choice B is
    incorrect. While the sentence identifies Obata as an artist who created a notable
    painting, it doesn't indicate when that painting was completed. Choice D is
    incorrect. The sentence identifies the method Obata used; it doesn't indicate
    when the painting was completed.

30  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    Math

    Module 1

    (27 questions)

    QUESTION 1

    Choice B is correct. In the given scatterplot, the x-values represent the distance
    above sea level, in feet, and the y-values represent the temperature, in °F. The
    point on the line of best fit with an x-value of 4,000 has a corresponding y-value
    of 35. Therefore, at a distance of 4,000 feet above sea level, the temperature
    predicted by the line of best fit is 35°F.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the temperature, in °F, predicted by the line of best fit
    at a distance of 0 feet above sea level. Choice C is incorrect. This is the measured
    temperature, in °F, at a distance of 6,000 feet above sea level. Choice D is
    incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 2

    Choice D is correct. It's given that rectangle P has an area of 72 square inches. If
    a rectangle with an area of 20 square inches is removed from rectangle P, the
    area, in square inches, of the resulting figure is 72-20, or 52.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 3

    Choice B is correct. Subtracting 61 from each side of the given equation yields
     p =4. By the definition of absolute value, if p =4, then p=4 or p=-4. Of the

    given choices, 4 is a solution to the given equation.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the quotient, not the difference, of 65 and 61.
    Choice C is incorrect. This is the sum, not the difference, of 65 and 61. Choice D is
    incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

31  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 4

    Choice A is correct. It's given that p represents the number of pounds of
    strawberries Lorenzo purchased and Lorenzo paid $1.90 per pound for the
    strawberries. It follows that the total amount, in dollars, Lorenzo paid for
    strawberries can be represented by 1.90p. It's given that Lorenzo paid $2 for the
    box of cereal. If Lorenzo paid a total of $9.60 for the box of cereal and
    strawberries, it follows that the equation 1.90p+2=9.60 can be used to find p.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors. Choice C is incorrect
    and may result from conceptual errors. Choice D is incorrect and may result from
    conceptual errors.

    QUESTION 5

    Choice D is correct. It's given that the bar graph summarizes the charge, in
    kilowatt-hours ^kWhh, a battery received each day for 15 days. The height of each
    bar in the bar graph shown represents the number of days the battery received
    the charge, in kWh, specified at the bottom of the bar. The bar for a charge of
    0 kWh reaches a height of 6. Therefore, the battery received a charge of 0 kWh
    for 6 of these days.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the charge, in kWh, that the battery received, not the
    number of days the battery received this charge. Choice B is incorrect. This is the
    number of days the battery received a charge of either 8, 16, or 23 kWh. Choice C
    is incorrect. This is the number of days the battery received a charge of 11 kWh.

    QUESTION 6

    The correct answer is 9. It's given that the equation y=px+r defines the line. In
    this equation, p represents the slope of the line and r represents the
    y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the line. It's given that the line has a slope of 9.
    Therefore, the value of p is 9.

    QUESTION 7

    The correct answer is either 14, -5, or -4. The x-intercepts of a graph in the
    xy-plane are the points at which the graph intersects the x-axis, or when the
    value of y is 0. Substituting 0 for y in the given equation yields
    0=3^x-14h^x+5h^x+4h. Dividing both sides of this equation by 3 yields
    0=^x-14h^x+5h^x+4h. Applying the zero product property to this equation
    yields three equations: x-14=0, x+5=0, and x+4=0. Adding 14 to both
    sides of the equation x-14=0 yields x=14, subtracting 5 from both sides of
    the equation x+5=0 yields x=-5, and subtracting 4 from both sides of the
    equation x+4=0 yields x=-4. Therefore, the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts
    of the graph of the given equation are 14, -5, and -4. Note that 14, -5, and -4 are
    examples of ways to enter a correct answer.

32  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 8

    Choice A is correct. It's given that the graph shown gives the estimated value y,
    in dollars, of a tablet as a function of the number of months since it was
    purchased, x. The y-intercept of a graph is the point at which the graph intersects
    the y-axis, or when x is 0. The graph shown intersects the y-axis at the point
    ^0, 225h. It follows that 0 months after the tablet was purchased, or when the
    tablet was purchased, the estimated value of the tablet was 225 dollars.
    Therefore, the best interpretation of the y-intercept is that the estimated value of
    the tablet was $225 when it was purchased.

    Choice B is incorrect. The estimated value of the tablet 24 months after it was
    purchased was $50, not $225. Choice C is incorrect. The estimated value of the
    tablet had decreased by $225-$50, or $175, not $225, in the 24 months after it
    was purchased. Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors.

    QUESTION 9

    Choice B is correct. It's given that triangles EFG and JKL are congruent such that
    angle E corresponds to angle J. Corresponding angles of congruent triangles
    are congruent, so angle E and angle J must be congruent. Therefore, if the
    measure of angle E is 45°, then the measure of angle J is also 45°.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the measure of angle K , not angle J. Choice C is
    incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. Choice D is
    incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 10

    Choice D is correct. It's given that the function                  f     is defined by   f^xh=    1  ^x+   6h.
                                                                                                      2

    Substituting    4   for  x   in  the   given    function   yields     f  ^4h=  1  ^4+6h,      or  f^4h=5.
                                                                                   2

    Therefore, the value of f^4h is 5.

    Choice   A  is  incorrect.   This      is  the  value  of  2^4+6h,       not   1  ^4  +  6h.  Choice  B  is
                                                                                   2

    incorrect.  This    is  the  value     of  2+ ^4+6h,       not  1  ^4+6h.      Choice    C    is  incorrect.    This
                                                                    2

    is  the  value  of  4+6,     not    1  ^4  +6h.
                                        2

    QUESTION 11

    Choice C is correct. The solution to a system of two equations corresponds to

    the point where the graphs of the equations intersect. The graphs of the linear

    function and the absolute value function shown intersect at a point with an

    x-coordinate between -4 and -3 and a y-coordinate between 4 and 5. Of the

    given    choices,   only    b- 72,  9   has  an  x-coordinate         between     -4     and      -3  and    a

                                        2l

    y-coordinate between 4 and 5.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the y-intercept of the graph of the linear function.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect. This is the vertex of the graph of the absolute value
    function.

33  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 12

    Choice D is correct. It's given that the system has infinitely many solutions. A
    system of two linear equations has infinitely many solutions when the two linear
    equations are equivalent. When one equation is a multiple of another equation,
    the two equations are equivalent. Multiplying each side of the given equation by 2
    yields 2^yh=2^6x+3h. Thus, 2^yh=2^6x+3h is equivalent to the given equation
    and could be the second equation in the system.

    Choice A is incorrect. The system consisting of this equation and the given
    equation has one solution rather than infinitely many solutions. Choice B is
    incorrect. The system consisting of this equation and the given equation has one
    solution rather than infinitely many solutions. Choice C is incorrect. The system
    consisting of this equation and the given equation has no solutions rather than
    infinitely many solutions.

    QUESTION 13

    The correct answer is 294. Subtracting 18 from each side of the given equation

    yields  6  p  =  36.  Multiplying  each  side  of  this  equation  by  7  yields  p=42.
            7                                                              6

    Multiplying each side of this equation by 7 yields 7p=294. Therefore, the value of

    7p is 294.

    QUESTION 14

    The correct answer is 3. It's given that y=9x+12. Substituting 9x+12 for y in
    the second equation in the system, x+7y=20, yields x+7^9x+12h=20, which
    gives x+63x+84=20, or 64x+84=20. Subtracting 84 from each side of this
    equation yields 64x=-64. Dividing each side of this equation by 64 yields
    x=-1. Substituting -1 for x in the first equation in the system, y=9x+12,
    yields y=9^-1h+12, or y=3. Therefore, the value of y is 3.

    QUESTION 15

    Choice A is correct. For a circle in the xy-plane that has the equation
    ^x-hh2+^y-kh2=r 2, where h, k, and r are constants, ^h, kh is the center of the
    circle and the positive value of r is the radius of the circle. In the given equation,
    h=13 and r 2=64. Taking the square root of each side of r 2=64 yields r=!8.
    Therefore, the center of the circle is at ^13, kh and the radius is 8.

    Choice B is incorrect. This gives the center and radius of a circle with equation
    ^x-kh2+^y-13h2=64, not ^x-13h2+^y-kh2=64. Choice C is incorrect. This
    gives the center and radius of a circle with equation ^x-kh2+ ^y-13h2=4,096,
    not ^x-13h2+^y-kh2=64. Choice D is incorrect. This gives the center and
    radius of a circle with equation ^x-13h2+ ^y-kh2=4,096, not
    ^x-13h2+^y-kh2=64.

34  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 16

    Choice C is correct. It's given that the function f is defined by f^xh= x-4x . It's
    also given that f^5h-f^ah=-15. Substituting 5 for x in the function
    f^xh= x-4x yields f^5h= 5-4^5h and substituting a for x in the function
    f^xh= x-4x yields f^ah= a-4a . Therefore, f^5h=15 and f^ah= -3a .
    Substituting 15 for f^5h and -3a for f^ah in the equation f^5h-f^ah=-15
    yields 15- -3a =-15. Subtracting 15 from both sides of this equation yields
    - -3a =-30. Dividing both sides of this equation by -1 yields -3a =30. By
    the definition of absolute value, if -3a =30, then -3a=30 or -3a=-30.
    Dividing both sides of each of these equations by -3 yields a=-10 or a=10,
    respectively. Thus, of the given choices, a value of a that satisfies
    f^5h-f^ah=-15 is 10.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 17

    Choice B is correct. Each of the given choices is an equation of the form
    f^xh=a^bhx-k, where a, b, and k are constants. For an equation of this form, the
    coefficient, a, is equal to the value of the function when the exponent is equal to
    0, or when x=k. It follows that in the equation f^xh=33^1.5hx, the coefficient, 33,
    is equal to the value of f^0h. Substituting 0 for x in this equation yields
    f^0h=33^1.5h0, which is equivalent to f^0h=33^1h, or f^0h=33. Thus, the value of
    c is 33 and the equation f^xh=33^1.5hx shows the value of c as the coefficient.

    Choice A is incorrect. This equation shows the value of f^-1h, not f^0h, as the
    coefficient. Choice C is incorrect. This equation shows the value of f^1h, not f^0h,
    as the coefficient. Choice D is incorrect. This equation shows the value of f^2h, not
    f^0h, as the coefficient.

    QUESTION 18

    Choice B is correct. It's given that t minutes after an initial observation, the

                                                                                                                     t

    number of bacteria in a population is 40,000^2h790. This expression consists of the

                                                                                                                                                             t

    initial number of bacteria, 40,000, multiplied by the expression 2790. The time, in

    minutes, it takes for the number of bacteria to double is the increase in the value

                                                                                     t

    of t that causes the expression 2790 to double. Since the base is 2, the expression

         t

    2790 will double when the exponent increases by 1. Since the exponent of this

    expression  is    t  ,  the  exponent  will  increase  by  1 when  t  increases  by  790.
                    790

    Therefore, the time, in minutes, it takes for the number of bacteria in the

    population to double is 790.

    Alternate approach: The initial number of bacteria in the population can be found

                                                                                                                                                                              0

    by substituting 0 for t in the given function. This yields f^0h=40,000^2h790, or

    f^0h=40,000. Therefore, the initial number of bacteria present in the population is

    40,000, so the bacteria population will have doubled when f^th=80,000.

35  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

                                                                                                                                                                                        t

    Substituting 80,000 for f^th in the given function yields 80,000=40,000^2h790.

    Dividing         both      sides       of  this  equation          by  40,000       yields                t  or  2  1  =  2    t  .  It
                                                                                                                                 790
                                                                                                2 = 2 790 ,

    follows       that   1     =     t  .   Multiplying      both      sides   of   this    equation    by       790    yields    790 = t .
                                   790

    Therefore, the time, in minutes, it takes for the number of bacteria in the

    population to double is 790.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the base of the exponent, not the time it takes for the
    number of bacteria in the population to double. Choice C is incorrect. This is the
    number of minutes it takes for the population to double twice. Choice D is
    incorrect. This is the number of bacteria that are initially observed, not the time it
    takes for the number of bacteria in the population to double.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice        D  is correct.            Adding       2  to     each    side  of    the  given  equation          yields
                                                         t

    12  =-        2  +   2  .  The  fractions        on     the    right   side     of  this  equation      have     a     common
    n             w      t

    denominator                of  tw ;    therefore,       the    equation      can     be   written   as  12   =   2w    -  2t  ,   or
                                                                                                            n        tw       tw

    12  =  2w-2t     ,   which       is     equivalent       to    12  =   2^w-   th.  Dividing  each   side         of    this  equation
    n         tw                                                   n          tw

    by  2  yields        6     =  w-t    .  Since    n,  t,  w,    and     w-t      are  all  positive quantities, taking                    the
                         n         tw

    reciprocal       of        each  side      of  the      equation       6=w-t         yields  an  equivalent            equation:

                                                                           n tw

    n  =   tw     .  Multiplying            each     side    of    this  equation       by   6  yields  n=       6tw    .
    6     w-t                                                                                                    w-t

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    Choice        C  is  incorrect.            This is   equivalent        to    1  rather    than  n.
                                                                                 n

    QUESTION 20

    The correct answer is 5. For the graph shown, x represents time, in minutes, and

    y represents temperature, in degrees Celsius ^°Ch. Therefore, the average rate of

    change, in °C per minute, of the recorded temperature of the air in the chamber

    between two x-values is the difference in the corresponding y-values divided by

    the difference in the x-values. The graph shows that at x=5, the corresponding

    y-value is 14. The graph also shows that at x=7, the corresponding y-value is 24.

    It follows that the average rate of change, in °C per minute, from x=5 to x=7 is

    24-    14  ,  which        is  equivalent        to     10  ,  or  5.
     7-    5                                                2

    QUESTION 21

    The correct answer is 87. It's given that in August, the car dealer completed 15
    more than 3 times the number of sales the car dealer completed in September.
    Let x represent the number of sales the car dealer completed in September. It
    follows that 3x+15 represents the number of sales the car dealer completed in
    August. It's also given that in August and September, the car dealer completed
    363 sales. It follows that x+^3x+15h=363, or 4x+15=363. Subtracting 15
    from each side of this equation yields 4x=348. Dividing each side of this
    equation by 4 yields x=87. Therefore, the car dealer completed 87 sales in
    September.

36  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 22

    Choice B is correct. Since it's given that P is the center of a circle with a radius of
    9 inches, and that points Q and R lie on that circle, it follows that PQ and RP of
    triangle PQR each have a length of 9 inches. Let the length of QR be x inches. It
    follows that the perimeter of triangle PQR is 9+9+x inches. Since it's given that
    the perimeter of triangle PQR is 31 inches, it follows that 9+9+x=31, or
    18+x=31. Subtracting 18 from both sides of this equation gives x=13.
    Therefore, the length, in inches, of QR is 13.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 23

    Choice A is correct. It's given that the four odd integers are consecutive, ordered
    from least to greatest, and that the first odd integer is represented by x. It follows
    that the second odd integer is represented by x+2, the third odd integer is
    represented by x+4, and the fourth odd integer is represented by x+6.
    Therefore, the product of 12 and the fourth odd integer is represented by
    12^x+6h, and 26 less than the sum of the first and third odd integers is
    represented by x+^x+4h-26. Since the product of 12 and the fourth odd
    integer is at most 26 less than the sum of the first and third odd integers, it
    follows that 12^x+6h#x+^x+4h-26.

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 24

    Choice B is correct. The linear relationship between x and y can be represented

    by an equation of the form y-y1=m^x-x1h, where m is the slope of the graph of

    the equation in the xy-plane and ^x1, y1h is a point on the graph. The slope of a line

    can  be   found  using       two  points   on  the  line  and   the  slope   formula       m   =  y2-y1  .   Each
                                                                                                      x2-x1

    value of x and its corresponding value of y in the table can be represented by a

    point ^x, yh. Substituting the points ^-s, 21h and ^s, 15h for ^x1, y1h and ^x2, y2h,

    respectively,   in      the  slope  formula    yields   m= s1-5-^-2s1h,  which     gives   m=     -6  ,  or
                                                                                                      2s

    m=-       3  .  Substituting   -   3  for  m  and  the  point   ^s, 15h  for  ^x1,    y1h  in  the  equation
              s                        s

    y-y1=m^x-x1h               yields   y-  15=-    3   ^x  -  sh.  Distributing  -    3  on   the  right-hand
                                                    s                                  s

    side  of  this  equation     yields   y  -  15  =-  3x  +3.     Adding   15   to   each    side   of  this
                                                        s

    equation        yields  y  =-  3x  +  18.  Multiplying    each  side     of  this  equation     by  s    yields
                                   s

    sy=-3x+18s. Adding 3x to each side of this equation yields 3x+sy=18s.

    Therefore, the equation 3x+sy=18s represents this relationship.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

37  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 1

    QUESTION 25

    Choice C is correct. The sine of an angle is equal to the cosine of its
    complementary angle. Since angles with measures 24° and 66° are
    complementary to each other, sin 24° is equal to cos 66° and sin 66° is
    equal to cos 24°. Substituting cos 66° for sin 24° and cos 24° for sin 66°
    in the given expression yields ^cos 66°h^cos 66°h+^cos 24°h^cos 24°h, or
    ^cos 66°h2+^cos 24°h2.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 26

    Choice A is correct. It's given that the cost of renting a carpet cleaner is $52 for
    the first day and $26 for each additional day. Therefore, the cost C^dh, in dollars,
    of renting the carpet cleaner for d days is the sum of the cost for the first day,
    $52, and the cost for the additional d-1 days, $26^d-1h. It follows that
    C^dh=52+26^d-1h, which is equivalent to C^dh=52+26d-26, or
    C^dh=26d+26.

    Choice B is incorrect. This function gives the cost of renting a carpet cleaner for
    d days if the cost is $78, not $52, for the first day and $26 for each additional
    day. Choice C is incorrect. This function gives the cost of renting a carpet cleaner
    for d days if the cost is $26, not $52, for the first day and $52, not $26, for each
    additional day. Choice D is incorrect. This function gives the cost of renting a
    carpet cleaner for d days if the cost is $130, not $52, for the first day and $52,
    not $26, for each additional day.

    QUESTION 27

    The   correct answer     is  -  13   .  The  value of          x      for  which   f^xh     reaches         its  minimum           can
                                    2

    be found by rewriting the given equation in the form f^xh=^x-hh2+k, where f^xh

    reaches its minimum, k, when the value of x is h. The given equation,

    f^xh=^x-2h^x+15h, can be rewritten as f^xh=x2+13x-30. By completing the

    square,  this  equation  can    be       rewritten         as    f^xh=ax2       +  13x      +  `  13  j2k-     30-     `  13  j2,
                                                                                                      2                       2

    which    is  equivalent  to  f^xh=`x+           13      2  -  289  ,  or   f^xh=`x       -  `-    13     2  -  289  .  Therefore,
                                                    2              4                                  2             4
                                                           j                                              jj

    f^xh  reaches  its  minimum          when    the          value  of    x   is  -  13  .  Note     that      -13/2   and   -6.5     are
                                                                                      2

    examples of ways to enter a correct answer.

    Alternate approach: The graph of y=f^xh in the xy-plane is a parabola. The value

    of x for the vertex of a parabola is the x-value of the midpoint between the two

    x-intercepts of the parabola. Since it's given that f^xh=^x-2h^x+15h, it follows

    that the two x-intercepts of the graph of y=f^xh in the xy-plane occur when x=2

    and x=-15, or at the points ^2, 0h and ^-15, 0h. The midpoint between two

    points,  ^x1,  y1h  and  ^x2,  y2h,  is  c  x1+x2      ,  y1+y2  m.   Therefore,         the  midpoint         between
                                                   2             2

    ^2,  0h  and  ^-15,  0h  is    b 2 -215 ,  0+   0  l,  or  b-    123,  0l.  It  follows     that      f^xh  reaches           its
                                                 2

    minimum when the value of x is -123. Note that -13/2 and -6.5 are examples of
    ways to enter a correct answer.

38  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    Math

    Module 2

    (27 questions)

    QUESTION 1

    Choice A is correct. It's given that a total of 165 people contributed to a charity
    event as either a donor or a volunteer. It's also given that 130 people contributed
    as a donor. It follows that 165-130, or 35, people contributed as a volunteer.

    Choice B is incorrect. This is the number of people who contributed as a donor,
    not a volunteer. Choice C is incorrect. This is the total number of people who
    contributed as either a donor or a volunteer, not the number of people who
    contributed as a volunteer. Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual
    or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 2

    Choice B is correct. It's given that there are 250 trees in a park and of these trees,

    6% are birch trees. The number of birch trees in the park can be calculated by

    multiplying     the  number  of  trees       in the  park  by   6   .  Therefore,  the  number  of  birch
                                                                   100

    trees  in  the  park  is  250b   6   l,  or  15.
                                    100

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the percentage of trees in the park that are birch
    trees, not the number of birch trees in the park. Choice C is incorrect. This is 30%,
    not 6%, of 250. Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or
    calculation errors.

    QUESTION 3

    Choice C is correct. The vertex of the graph of a quadratic function in the
    xy-plane is the point at which the graph is either at its minimum or maximum
    y-value. In the graph shown, the minimum y-value occurs at the point ^0, 2h.

    Choice A is incorrect. The graph shown doesn't pass through the point ^0, -2h.
    Choice B is incorrect. The graph shown doesn't pass through the point ^0, -3h.
    Choice D is incorrect. The graph shown doesn't pass through the point ^0, 3h.

39  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 4

    Choice A is correct. It's given that there are 2,358 raccoons in a 131-square-mile

    area. The estimated population density, in raccoons per square mile, is the

    estimated number of raccoons divided by the number of square miles. Therefore,

    the      estimated        population              density   of  this  area     is    2,358 raccoons       ,  or   18  raccoons         per
                                                                                         131square miles

    square mile.

    Choice B is incorrect. This is the number of square miles in the area, not the
    estimated number of raccoons per square mile in this area. Choice C is incorrect
    and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. Choice D is incorrect and
    may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 5

    Choice B is correct. The probability of selecting a positive number is the number

    of positive numbers in the data set divided by the total number of numbers in the

    data set. There is 1 positive number in this data set. There are 3 total numbers in

    this data set. Thus, if a number from this data set is selected at random, the

    probability         of    selecting        a      positive  number       is    1  .
                                                                                   3

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    Choice C is incorrect. This is the probability of selecting a negative number from

    this data set. Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation

    errors.

    QUESTION 6

    The correct answer is 2,850. It's given that the function f^xh=45x+600 gives the
    monthly fee, in dollars, a facility charges to keep x crates in storage. Substituting
    50 for x in this function yields f^50h=45^50h+600, or f^50h=2,850. Therefore,
    the monthly fee, in dollars, the facility charges to keep 50 crates in storage is
    2,850.

    QUESTION 7

    The correct answer is                      11  .  It's  given  that  the    function        f  is defined by
                                               4

    f  `x    j=  5b  1  -  x   2  +  11  .  Substituting        1   for  x   in this equation yields
                     4               4                          4
                              l

    f  b  1  l=  5b  1  -  1   2  +  11  ,  which     is    equivalent    f  `  1  j=    5^0h2  +  11  ,  or  f b 41  l=  11  .  Therefore,
          4          4     4         4                                          4                  4                      4
                              l

    the      value   of  fb   1  l  is  11  .  Note   that  11/4    or    2.75     are   examples         of     ways     to     enter  a
                              4         4

    correct answer.

    QUESTION 8

    Choice C is correct. It's given that 8x=6. Multiplying each side of this equation by
    9 yields 72x=54. Therefore, the value of 72x is 54.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the value of 4x, not 72x. Choice B is incorrect and
    may result from conceptual or calculation errors. Choice D is incorrect and may
    result from conceptual or calculation errors.

40  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 9

    Choice C is correct. Since x is a common factor of each term in the given
    expression, the given expression can be rewritten as x^23x2+2x+9h.

    Choice A is incorrect. This expression is equivalent to 23x3+46x2+207x.
    Choice B is incorrect. This expression is equivalent to 207x4+18x3+9x.
    Choice D is incorrect. This expression is equivalent to 34x3+34x2+34x.

    QUESTION 10

    Choice D is correct. The given expression can be rewritten as
    ^9x3+6x3h+5x2+5x+^7-5h. Combining like terms in this expression yields
    15x3+5x2+5x+2.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 11

    Choice D is correct. It's given that the equation 80S+90C=1,120 represents
    this situation, where S is the number of square tokens won, C is the number of
    circle tokens won, and 1,120 is the total number of points the tokens are worth. It
    follows that 80S represents the total number of points the square tokens are
    worth. Therefore, each square token is worth 80 points. It also follows that 90C
    represents the total number of points the circle tokens are worth. Therefore, each
    circle token is worth 90 points. Since a circle token is worth 90 points and a
    square token is worth 80 points, then a circle token is worth 90-80, or 10, more
    points than a square token.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect. This is the number of points a circle token is worth.
    Choice C is incorrect. This is the number of points a square token is worth.

    QUESTION 12

    Choice D is correct. A line in the xy-plane that passes through the points ^x1, y1h

    and   ^x2,  y2h  has  a slope  of  y2  -y1  .  The  line of best  fit  shown    passes approximately
                                       x2  -x1

    through the points ^1, 3.3h and ^7, 14.5h. It follows that the slope of this best fit

    line  is  approximately  14.5-3.3      ,  which  is  equivalent   to   11.2  ,  or  approximately  1.87.
                                7-1                                          6

    Therefore, of the given choices, 2 is closest to the slope of the line of best fit

    shown.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

41  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 13

    The correct answer is 4.41. The area, A, of a circle is given by the formula A=rr2,
    where r is the radius of the circle. It's given that the area of the circle is br square
    inches, where b is a constant, and the radius of the circle is 2.1 inches.
    Substituting br for A and 2.1 for r in the formula A=rr2 yields br=r^2.12h.
    Dividing both sides of this equation by r yields b=4.41. Therefore, the value of b
    is 4.41.

    QUESTION 14

    The correct answer is 153. Since it's given that PQ is parallel to XY and angle Y
    is a right angle, angle ZQP is also a right angle. Angle ZPQ is complementary to
    angle XZY , which means its measure, in degrees, is 90-63, or 27. Since
    angle XPQ is supplementary to angle ZPQ, its measure, in degrees, is 180-27,
    or 153.

    QUESTION 15

    Choice C is correct. It's given that t represents the number of years since the

    account  was  opened.      Therefore,      t  represents   the   number  of  10-year         periods
                                              10

    since the account was opened. Since the value of the account doubles during

    each of these 10-year periods, the value of the account can be found by
                                                                                             t
    multiplying  the  initial  value  by   t  factors  of  2.  This  is  equivalent  to          It's  given
                                          10                                             2 10 .

    that the initial value of the account is $890. Therefore, the value of the account

    M^th, in dollars, t years after the account was opened can be represented by

                                      t

    M ^t h= 890 ^2h10 .

    Choice A is incorrect. This equation represents the value of an account if the
    value of the account halves, not doubles, every 10 years. Choice B is incorrect.
    This equation represents the value of an account if the value of the account
    decreases by 90%, not doubles, every 2, not 10, years. Choice D is incorrect. This
    equation represents the value of an account if the value of the account increases
    by a factor of 10, not doubles, every 2, not 10, years.

    QUESTION 16

    Choice A is correct. The inequality y<x indicates that for any solution to the
    given system of inequalities, the value of x must be greater than the
    corresponding value of y. The inequality x<22 indicates that for any solution to
    the given system of inequalities, the value of x must be less than 22. Of the given
    choices, only choice A contains values of x that are each greater than the
    corresponding value of y and less than 22. Therefore, for choice A, all the values
    of x and their corresponding values of y are solutions to the given system of
    inequalities.

    Choice B is incorrect. The values in this table aren't solutions to the inequality
    y<x. Choice C is incorrect. The values in this table aren't solutions to the
    inequality x<22. Choice D is incorrect. The values in this table aren't solutions to
    the inequality y<x or the inequality x<22.

42  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 17

    Choice A is correct. For positive values of a, am=a^m-nh, where m and n are

                                                                                      an

    integers. Since it's given that h>0 and q>0, this property can be applied to

    rewrite the given expression as ^h^15-5hh^q^7-21hh, which is equivalent to h10 q-14. For

    positive  values  of  a,  a-n  =  1     .  This  property   can  be  applied  to   rewrite  the
                                      an

    expression  h10 q-14      as  ^h  10hc   1   m,  which  is  equivalent  to  h10 .
                                            q14
                                                                                q14

    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 18

    Choice D is correct. Adding the second equation to the first equation in the given
    system of equations yields 3y-3y=4x+9x+17-23, or 0=13x-6. Adding 6
    to each side of this equation yields 6=13x. Multiplying each side of this equation
    by 3 yields 18=39x. Therefore, the value of 39x is 18.

    Choice A is incorrect. This is the value of -39x, not 39x. Choice B is incorrect.
    This is the value of -13x, not 39x. Choice C is incorrect. This is the value of 13x,
    not 39x.

    QUESTION 19

    Choice B is correct. It's given that the function h estimates that the object is
    3,364 feet above the ground when it's dropped at t=0. Substituting 3,364 for
    h^th and 0 for t in the function h yields 3,364=-16^0h2+b, or 3,364=b.
    Substituting 3,364 for b in the function h yields h^th=-16t2+3,364. When the
    object hits the ground, its height will be 0 feet above the ground. Substituting 0
    for h^th in h^th=-16t2+3,364 yields 0=-16t2+3,364. Adding 16t2 to each
    side of this equation yields 16t2=3,364. Dividing each side of this equation by 16
    yields t2=210.25. Since the object will hit the ground at a positive number of
    seconds after it's dropped, the value of t can be found by taking the positive
    square root of each side of this equation, which yields t=14.50. It follows that the
    function estimates the object will hit the ground approximately 14.50 seconds
    after being dropped.

    Choice A is incorrect. The function estimates that 7.25 seconds after being
    dropped, the object's height will be -16^7.25h2+3,364 feet, or 2,523 feet, above
    the ground. Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation
    errors. Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

43  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 20

    The correct answer is 120. The solutions to a quadratic equation of the form

    ax2+bx+c=0 can be calculated using the quadratic formula and are given by

    x= -b!      b2  -4ac  .  The  given       equation     is  in  the  form  ax2+bx+c=0,               where     a=2,
                2a

    b=-8, and c=-7. It follows that the solutions to the given equation are

    x=8!    ^-8h2-4^2h^-7h        ,   which   is  equivalent       to   x=8!    64+56     ,  or  x=  8!   120  .  It's
                 2^2h                                                           4                        4

    given that one solution to the equation                    2x2-8x-7=0           can be written as          8-       k.
                                                                                                                  4

    The  solution   8- 120        is  in this     form.  Therefore,     the  value  of    k  is  120.
                         4

    QUESTION 21

    The correct answer is 1,660. It's given that a line intersects two parallel lines,
    forming four acute angles and four obtuse angles. When two parallel lines are
    intersected by a transversal line, the angles formed have the following properties:
    two adjacent angles are supplementary, and alternate interior angles are
    congruent. Therefore, each of the four acute angles have the same measure, and
    each of the four obtuse angles have the same measure. It's also given that the
    measure of one of the acute angles is ^9x-560h°. If two angles are
    supplementary, then the sum of their measures is 180°. Therefore, the measure of
    the obtuse angle adjacent to any of the acute angles is ^180-^9x-560hh°, or
    ^180-9x+560h°, which is equivalent to ^-9x+740h°. It's given that the sum of
    the measures of one of the acute angles and three of the obtuse angles is
    ^-18x+wh°. It follows that ^9x-560h+3^-9x+740h=^-18x+wh, which is
    equivalent to 9x-560-27x+2,220=-18x+w, or -18x+1,660=-18x+w.
    Adding 18x to both sides of this equation yields 1,660=w.

    QUESTION 22

    Choice B is correct. An equation that defines a linear function f can be written in

    the form f^xh=mx+b, where m and b are constants. It's given in the table that

    when x=-4, f^xh=0. Substituting -4 for x and 0 for f^xh in the equation

    f^xh=mx+b yields 0=m^-4h+b, or 0=-4m+b. Adding 4m to both sides of

    this equation yields 4m=b. Substituting 4m for b in the equation f^xh=mx+b

    yields  f^xh=mx+4m.              It's  also   given  in  the   table  that  when      x=-    19  ,  f^xh=1.
                                                                                                 5

    Substituting    - 19     for  x   and     1 for  f^xh  in  the  equation    f^xh=mx+4m              yields

                         5

    1=m     b-  19  l+4m,    or   1=       1  m.  Multiplying  both     sides   of  this  equation      by  5  yields
                5                          5

    m=5. Substituting 5 for m in the equation f^xh=mx+4m yields f^xh=5x+4^5h,

    or f^xh=5x+20. If h^xh=f^xh-13, substituting 5x+20 for f^xh in this equation

    yields h^xh=^5x+20h-13, or h^xh=5x+7.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect. This is an equation that defines the linear function f , not h.

44  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    QUESTION 23

    Choice C is correct. It's given that g^c+7h=4c. Therefore, for the given linear

    function      g,     when      x=c+7,       g^xh=         c  .  Substituting     c+7       for      x  and    c   for  g^xh   in
                                                              4                                                   4

    g^xh=b-15x                  yields    c  =b-     15^c     +     7h.   Applying   the    distributive          property    to  the
                                          4

    right-hand        side of      this   equation        yields       c  =b  -15c       -105.     Adding         15c  to  both
                                                                       4

    sides     of  this equation           yields    c  +15c=b             -  105.  Adding      105      to    both    sides   of  this
                                                    4

    equation      yields        c  +15c+105=b,                or    61c   +105     =  b.  Therefore,          the     expression
                                4                                    4

    that   represents           the  value      of  b  is  61c      +  105.
                                                            4

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 24

    Choice B is correct. It's given that angle Z in triangle XYZ is a right angle. Thus,

    side YZ is the leg opposite angle X and side XZ is the leg adjacent to angle X .

    The tangent of an acute angle in a right triangle is the ratio of the length of the leg

    opposite the angle to the length of the leg adjacent to the angle. It follows that

    tan    X=     YZ  .  It's  given  that      tan  X=    12       and the length of side YZ                 is  24  units.
                  XZ                                       35

    Substituting            12  for  tan X      and    24  for YZ         in the equation          tan     X  =   YZ  yields  12  =   24  .
                            35                                                                                    XZ          35      XZ

    Multiplying both sides of this equation by 35^XZh yields 12^XZh=24^35h, or

    12^XZh=840. Dividing both sides of this equation by 12 yields XZ=70. The

    length XY can be calculated using the Pythagorean theorem, which states that if

    a right triangle has legs with lengths of a and b and a hypotenuse with length c,

    then a2+b2=c2. Substituting 70 for a and 24 for b in this equation yields

    702+242=c2, or 5,476=c2. Taking the square root of both sides of this equation

    yields !74=c. Since the length of the hypotenuse must be positive, 74=c.

    Therefore, the length of XY is 74 units. The perimeter of a triangle is the sum of

    the lengths of all sides. Thus, ^74+70+24h units, or 168 units, is the perimeter

    of triangle XYZ .

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect. This would be the perimeter, in units, for a right triangle
    where the length of side YZ is 12 units, not 24 units. Choice D is incorrect and
    may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 25

    Choice C is correct. It's given that in the xy-plane, the graph of the given

    equation is a circle. The equation of a circle in the xy-plane can be written

    in the form ^x-hh2+^y-kh2=r2, where ^h, kh is the center of the circle

    and r is the length of the circle's radius. Subtracting 6y from both sides

    of the equation x2+14x+y2=6y+109 yields x2+14x+y2-6y=109.

    By completing the square, this equation can be rewritten as

    ax  2  +  14x  +     `  14 2   +  ay  2  -  6y  +  `  -6  j2k=109+        `  14   2  +  `  -6  j2.  This  equation
                                                           2                     2              2
                            2j k                                                     j

45  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
    SAT ANSWER EXPLANATIONS n MATH: MODULE 2

    can be rewritten as ^x2+14x+49h+^y2-6y+9h=109+49+9, or
    ^x+7h2+^y-3h2=167. Therefore, r2=167. Taking the square root of both
    sides of this equation yields r= 167 and r=- 167. Since r is the length
    of the circle's radius, r must be positive. Therefore, the length of the circle's
    radius is 167.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 26

    Choice B is correct. It's given that the speed of a vehicle is increasing at a rate of
    7.3 meters per second squared. It's given to use 1mile=1,609 meters. There are
    60 seconds in 1 minute; therefore, 602 or 3,600 seconds squared is equal to
    1 minute squared. It follows that the rate of 7.3 meters per second squared is
    equivalent to a1se7c.o3nmdestqeursaredka1,6019mmileeterska3,6010msineuctoensdqsusaqreudaredk, or approximately
    16.33 miles per minute squared. The rate, in miles per minute squared, rounded
    to the nearest tenth is 16.3.

    Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
    Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.

    QUESTION 27

    The correct answer is 14. It's given by the first equation of the system of
    equations that y=-2.5. Substituting -2.5 for y in the second given equation,
    y=x2+8x+k, yields -2.5=x2+8x+k. Adding 2.5 to both sides of this
    equation yields 0=x2+8x+k+2.5. A quadratic equation of the form
    0=ax2+bx+c, where a, b, and c are constants, has no real solutions if and only
    if its discriminant, b2-4ac, is negative. In the equation 0=x2+8x+k+2.5,
    where k is a positive integer constant, a=1, b=8, and c=k+2.5. Substituting 1
    for a, 8 for b, and k+2.5 for c in b2-4ac yields 82-4^1h^k+2.5h, or
    64-4^k+2.5h. Since this value must be negative, 64-4^k+2.5h<0. Adding
    4^k+2.5h to both sides of this inequality yields 64<4^k+2.5h. Dividing both
    sides of this inequality by 4 yields 16<k+2.5. Subtracting 2.5 from both sides of
    this inequality yields 13.5<k. Since k is a positive integer constant, the least
    possible value of k is 14.

46  SAT PRACTICE TEST #7 ANSWER EXPLANATIONS
